<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DAFFARS_5301_603-3-90">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5301.603-3-90</ph> Field Ordering Officer Appointments.</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">(a) Policy. The issuing authority (see 5301.603-1)
appointing a Field Ordering Officer (FOO) will state in the
appointment letter that the FOO’s authority may not be
delegated further.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(b) Appointment and termination authority. An
issuing authority may appoint in writing a FOO, pursuant to
5301.603-3, when the issuing authority determines that the
appointment is essential for the operation of the contracting
mission. The purposes for which an issuing authority may appoint a
FOO are –</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(1) To make purchases using imprest funds (<xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-13#FAR_13_305"
                  scope="external">FAR
13.305</xref>, <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/dfars/part-213-simplified-acquisition-procedures#DFARS_213.305"
                  scope="external">DFARS
213.305</xref>);</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(2) To make purchases using Standard Form 44 (<xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-13#FAR_13_306"
                  scope="external">FAR
13.306</xref>, <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/dfars/part-213-simplified-acquisition-procedures#DFARS_213.306"
                  scope="external">DFARS
213.306</xref>);</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(3) To place calls against Blanket Purchase
Agreements where the agreement terms permit and provided all calls
placed are within limitations specified in the agreement and FOO
letter of appointment (<xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-13#FAR_13_303"
                  scope="external">FAR
13.303</xref>, <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/dfars/part-213-simplified-acquisition-procedures#DFARS_213.303"
                  scope="external">DFARS
213.303</xref>, <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/affars/part-5313-simplified-acquisition-procedures#AFFARS_5313_303_5"
                  scope="external">DAFFARS
5313.303-5</xref>); and,</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(4) To place orders against indefinite delivery
contracts awarded by a contracting officer, where the contract
terms permit and provided all orders placed are within limitations
specified in the contract and FOO letter of appointment (<xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-16#FAR_16_505"
                  scope="external">FAR
16.505</xref>, <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/dfars/part-216-types-contracts#DFARS_216.505"
                  scope="external">DFARS
216.505</xref>, <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/affars/part-5316-types-contracts#AFFARS_5316_505"
                  scope="external">DAFFARS
5316.505</xref>).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(c) Responsibilities of issuing authority.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(1) Training and orientation. The issuing
authority will orient and instruct FOOs in person or in writing
regarding –</p>
        <p>(i) The proper procedure(s) the issuing authority will authorize
the FOO to use;</p>

        <p>(ii) The standards of conduct prescribed in the Joint Ethics
Regulation (<xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.esd.whs.mil/portals/54/documents/dd/issuances/dodm/550007r.pdf"
                  scope="external">DoD
5500.7-R</xref>) and the procurement integrity provisions at <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-3#FAR_3_104"
                  scope="external">FAR
3.104</xref>; and</p>
        <p>(iii) The preparation and submission of documentation for
purchase and contract actions.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(2) Surveillance. Surveillance activities must be
conducted by the issuing authority or delegated to a warranted
contracting officer. Surveillance activities include:</p>
        <p>(i) Technical supervision of FOOs;</p>
        <p>(ii) One hundred percent (100%) surveillance on all transactions
not later than 30 days after the date of the transaction, and all
FOO program records no less than annually. Document inspection
findings (monthly and annually) and include specific comments as to
whether the FOO is –</p>

        <p>(A) Operating within the scope and limitations of authority
delegated and <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-3#FAR_Subpart_3_1"
                  scope="external">FAR
subpart 3.1</xref>;</p>
        <p>(B) Maintaining the standards of conduct prescribed in <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.esd.whs.mil/portals/54/documents/dd/issuances/dodm/550007r.pdf"
                  scope="external">DoD
5500.7-R</xref>;</p>
        <p>(C) Engaging in improper practices, including but not limited to
splitting purchase transactions to avoid monetary limitations or
delegating authority to others; and</p>
        <p>(D) Submitting correct and timely documentation for reporting
purposes.</p>
        <p>(iii) Document any instances of a FOO violating limitations of
appointment and not promptly correcting violations or deficiencies
noted in inspections or reviews;</p>
        <p>(iv) Terminate the FOO’s appointment when the issuing
authority has lost confidence in the FOO’s ability to adhere
to limitations of appointment and/or documentation requirements;
and</p>
        <p>(v) Retain copies of inspection and review findings for three
years in the FOO’s and issuing authority (or warranted
contracting officer, if delegated) files.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(3) Termination.</p>
        <p>(i) A FOO’s appointment will remain in effect until the
FOO leaves their position via reassignment or termination, or the
issuing authority terminates the appointment.</p>
        <p>(ii) Issuing authorities will terminate FOO appointments in
writing. Issuing authorities will not revoke an ordering officer
appointment retroactively.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(d) Procedures. Issuing authorities will
–</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(1) Appoint FOOs by a letter of appointment
containing at a minimum the details prescribed at 5301.603-3(b)(1)
and listing the purpose(s) for appointment (5301.603-3-90(b)),
using a template substantially the same as the ones provided in the
<xref format="html"
                  href="https://intelshare.intelink.gov/sites/afica-ocs-portal/Flu%202020/CCO%20tools/FOO%20Guidance"
                  scope="external">AFICC
FOO Guidance</xref>, tailored to fit the circumstances of the
appointment;</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(2) Maintain the file of appointments;</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(3) Maintain purchase and surveillance
documentation;</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(4) Require individuals appointed as FOOs to
acknowledge receipt of their letters of appointment and/or
termination in writing; and</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(5) Distribute appointment and/or termination
letters to FOOs, contractors, imprest fund cashiers, disbursing
officers and other interested personnel as necessary.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
</dita>
