<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DAFFARS_5301_601-91">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5301.601-91</ph> 
Department of the Air Force Contracting Self-Inspection
Program</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">(a) The DAF Self-Inspection program assesses compliance with
federal laws, regulatory policies, DoD and AF directives, and
instructions across the enterprise. It is also used to verify
adequacy of contract preparation.</p>

        <p outputclass="List1">(b) SCOs will manage a self-inspection program, which includes
both the assessment of individual contract files and the assessment
of contracting management programs contained in the Contracting
Self-Assessment Communicator (SAC) as required by <xref format="html"
                  href="https://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_ig/publication/dafi90-302/dafi90-302.pdf"
                  scope="external">DAFI
90-302</xref>, The Inspection System of the Department of the Air
Force. As a minimum, contracting offices must perform
self-inspections of individual contract files on an annual
basis.</p>

        <p outputclass="List1">(c) For self-inspection of individual contract files reviewed
after award, SCOs may use the <xref format="html"
                  href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/AQCP/KnowledgeCenter/SitePages/DAFFARS-Templates.aspx"
                  scope="external">Air
Force Contracting Self-Inspection Checklist</xref>; a comparable
organizational checklist for post award reviews; or any combination
thereof.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(d) SCOs will ensure corrective actions are implemented as a
result of any self-inspection. Contracting offices must have a
documented program for self-inspection, to include a process for
closing resolved findings in a timely manner, ensuring an effective
level of review necessary to close a finding, and integrating
findings and resolutions into unit training.</p>

        <p outputclass="List1">(e) SCOs must forward a consolidated trend analysis report for
the previous calendar year to <xref format="html"
                  href="mailto:usaf.pentagon.saf-aq.mbx.saf-aqcp-workflow@mail.mil"
                  scope="external">SAF/AQCP</xref>
by 28 February of each year. See the tailorable <xref format="html"
                  href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/AQCP/KnowledgeCenter/SitePages/DAFFARS-Templates.aspx"
                  scope="external">Consolidated
Trend Analysis Report</xref> template.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
</dita>
