<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita><concept id="DAFFARS_5304_101">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">5304.101</ph> Contracting Officer’s
Signature</title>
      <conbody>

        <p>A contract or bilateral modification requires a signature by
both an authorized representative of the contractor and a
Government contracting officer. As best practice the Contracting
officer may retain in the contract file objective quality evidence
of the contractor representative’s authority to bind the
company, in accordance with <xref format="html" href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-4#FAR_4_102" scope="external">FAR
4.102</xref>, to perform under the Terms and Conditions of his/her
signature. The contracting officer shall ensure that this bilateral
signature page is uploaded to EDA as a PDF attachment.</p>
        <p>
          <b>5304.102 Early Effective Date</b>
        </p>
        <p>1. Approval authority for the use of an early effective date is
the chief of the contracting office. After reaching agreement on
terms, conditions, price, and if funds are available, the
contracting officer may advise a prospective contractor in writing
of the Government’s intent to use an effective date before
the contract mailing (award/signed) date.</p>
        <p>2. Notice to the contractor should state that any costs
recognized in a resulting contract should be limited to those
allowable, allocable and reasonable; costs that would normally be
recognized if incurred after contract award. The Notice to the
contractor should state, that if there is no contract, all incurred
costs should be at the contractor’s own risk.</p>
        <p>3. Approval Authority should provide contractual coverage with a
letter contract, or other appropriate undefinitized contractual
action, if the Government intends to direct a prospective
contractor, to accept benefits of efforts, or make payments before
definitive contract mailing date.</p>
        <p>4. Approval Authority should obtain legal review for early
effective dates established more than 30 days prior to the
envisioned contract award date.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
</dita>