<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DAFFARS_5304_403" class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title "> 
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5304.403</ph>  Responsibilities of Contracting Officers</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) In accordance with the <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-4#FAR_Subpart_4_4"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">FAR
part 4.4</xref>, the contracting officer is responsible for reviewing
all proposed solicitations to determine whether access to
classified information may be required by offerors or by a
contractor during contract performance.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) Contracting officers
                                will require input and support from program
                                managers, project managers, or other personnel
                                knowledgeable of the contract requirements to
                                perform this responsibility.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) The Contracting Officer will, in accordance with <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-32/subtitle-A/chapter-I/subchapter-D/part-117"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">32
CFR Part 117</xref> and <xref format="html"
                  href="https://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_aa/publication/dodm5220.22v2_afman16-1406v2/dodm5220.22v2_afman16-1406v2.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">DAFMAN
16-1406V2</xref>, National Industrial Security Program: Industrial
Security Procedures for Government Activities:</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">i. Verify the vendor’s
                                facility clearance status and safeguarding
                                capability by accessing the National Industrial
                                Security System (NISS), unless otherwise
                                delegated.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p "> ii. Submit a facility
                                clearance sponsorship request to the Defense
                                Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA)
                                using NISS, unless otherwise delegated.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p "> iii. Include the security
                                requirements clause, <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-52#FAR_52_204_2"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">FAR 52.204-2</xref> and the
                                Department of Defense Contact Security
                                Classification Specification (DD Form 254) if
                                access to classified information is required
                                during the solicitation phase or award phase of
                                a contract.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p "> iv. Ensure the DD Form 254 is properly prepared, reviewed, coordinated<ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph "> and distributed in accordance with DAFMAN 16-1406V2. In the absence of exceptional circumstances that support classification, the DD Form 254 will not be classified</ph>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p "> v. Serve as the approving official <ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">Certifier</ph> for the DD Form 254.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p "> vi. Ensure the DD Form 254
                                is distributed to:</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "> (1) The contractor as part
                                of the contract.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "> (2) All DCSA field
                                activities listed in blocks 6c, 7c, 8c, and 10
                                (as applicable).</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "> (3) All host installation
                                Air Force Information Protection Office(s)
                                listed as government performance locations (or
                                Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard equivalent
                                where classified performance will occur).</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "> (4) Others in accordance
                                with local DD Form 254 processing
                                procedures.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p "> vii. Within 30 calendar
                                days prior to classified work beginning to all
                                government performance locations:</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "> (1) Ensure the host
                                Installation Commander is aware of the
                                contractor’s presence as a visitor on the
                                installation normally through the installation
                                Information Protection Office when performance
                                is on an Air Force installation at least 30
                                calendar days in advance.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "> (2) If the certified DD
                                Form 254 cannot be provided to the installation
                                Information Protection Office at least 30
                                calendar days in advance due to contract
                                performance commencing in less than 30 calendar
                                days from date of contract award, then the DD
                                Form 254 is to be provided within 72 hours after
                                contract award.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p "> viii. Upon receipt of notification of a contractor security violation from the DCSA, the contracting officer or designee will ensure the owner of the classified information subject to loss, compromise, or suspected compromise (e.g., Original Classification Authority (OCA) or representative) is further notified<ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph "> and can perform required actions to mitigate potential damage in accordance with DoDM 5200.01, Volume 3, Enclosure and DAFI 16-1404, Chapters 3 and 7</ph>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p "> ix. Upon notification of an
                                adverse facility clearance action (e.g.
                                Invalidation/Intent to Revoke) and/or receipt of
                                a contractor being issued a less than
                                satisfactory security review rating issued by
                                DCSA, coordinate all potential contracting
                                actions with the program office and/or affected
                                government customer(s) personnel to ensure
                                vendor mitigates all reported instances of
                                non-compliance with <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-52#FAR_52_204_2"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">FAR 52.204-2</xref>, as
                                applicable.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p "> (d) National Interest
                                Determination (NID)</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p "> i. As of 1 October 2020, in
                                accordance with Public Law 115-232, John S.
                                McCain National Defense Authorization Act for
                                Fiscal Year 2019, Section 842, “Removal of
                                National Interest Determination Requirements for
                                Certain Entities,” August 13, 2018:</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "> (1) NIDs are no longer
                                required for National Technology and Industrial
                                Base foreign ownership entities that require
                                access to proscribed information and under
                                Special Security Agreements to mitigate the
                                foreign ownership, control, or influence.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "> (2) If necessary, contact
                                the servicing Information Protection Office to
                                verify if a NID is required prior to submitting
                                a NID request.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p "> ii. Upon receiving adequate
                                written justification from the requesting
                                program office or activity, the contracting
                                officer reviews, validates, and processes the
                                NID request and associated written
                                approvals/documentation, in accordance with AFH
                                16-1406, National Interest Determination
                                Handbook</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p "> iii. The contracting
                                officer shall maintain a copy of the approved
                                program, project, or contract specific NID
                                package in the contract file.</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
