<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN"
        	"/home/ec2-user/ditatool/dita-ot-2.5.4/plugins/org.oasis-open.dita.v1_3/dtd/technicalContent/dtd/ditabase.dtd">
	<dita xtrc="NoAutoListNumber">
		<concept id="AFFARS_5306_304">
			<title>
				<ph outputclass="topicnum"
  					props="autonumber">5306.304</ph> Approval of the Justification</title>
			<conbody>
				<ol>
					<li outputclass="List 1">
						<p outputclass="List 1">INTERIM CHANGE: See <xref format="pdf"
    								href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/Documents/Contracting_Memos/Policy/20-C-20.pdf"
    								scope="external">CPM 20-C-20</xref>.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
				<table colsep="1"
     					rowsep="1">
					<tgroup cols="3">
						<colspec colname="1"
       							colnum="1"
       							colwidth="34*"/>
						<colspec colname="2"
       							colnum="2"
       							colwidth="61*"/>
						<colspec colname="3"
       							colnum="3"
       							colwidth="6*"/>
						<tbody>
							<row>
								<entry>
									<p>
										<b>Justification Value</b>
									</p>
								</entry>
								<entry>
									<p>
										<b>Approval Authority</b>
									</p>
								</entry>
								<entry>
									<p>
										<b>Delegability</b>
									</p>
								</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry>
									<p>
										<u>&lt;</u> $700K</p>
								</entry>
								<entry>
									<p>Chief of the Contracting Office</p>
								</entry>
								<entry>
									<p>Delegable to contracting officer, consistent with warrant level</p>
								</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry>
									<p>&gt; $700K <u>&lt;</u> $13.5M</p>
								</entry>
								<entry>
									<p>Procuring Activity</p>
									<p>Competition Advocate</p>
								</entry>
								<entry>
									<p>Not further delegable</p>
								</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry>
									<p>&gt; $13.5M <u>&lt;</u> $93M</p>
								</entry>
								<entry>
									<p>PEO/Head of Procuring Activity<ph>
											<u>*</u>
										</ph> / Designated Alternate if they meet the criteria in <xref format="html"
    											href="https://acquisition.gov/content/part-6-competition-requirements"
    											scope="external">
											<u>FAR <ph outputclass="FAR">6.304</ph>(a)(3)</u>
										</xref>. If they do not meet the criteria in <xref format="html"
    											href="https://acquisition.gov/content/part-6-competition-requirements"
    											scope="external">
											<u>FAR <ph outputclass="FAR">6.304</ph>(a)(3)</u>
										</xref> = Senior Procurement Executive</p>
								</entry>
								<entry>
									<p>Delegable to Flag/General Officer or civilian SES</p>
								</entry>
							</row>
							<row>
								<entry>
									<p>&gt; $93M**</p>
								</entry>
								<entry>
									<p>Senior Procurement Executive</p>
								</entry>
								<entry>
									<p>Not further delegable</p>
								</entry>
							</row>
						</tbody>
					</tgroup>
				</table>
				<p outputclass="Normal (Web)">* For the Air Force, in accordance with FAR <ph outputclass="FAR">2.101</ph>, procuring activity is synonymous with contracting activity.</p>
				<p outputclass="Normal (Web)">**J&amp;As for actions exceeding $93M must be coordinated with the DAS(C) or the ADAS(C) and approved by the SPE). The contracting officer must submit justifications requiring approval by the SPE simultaneously to <xref format="mailto"
    						href="mailto:usaf.pentagon.saf-aq.mbx.saf-aq-workflow@mail.mil"
    						scope="external">
						<u>SAF/AQ</u>
					</xref> and to <xref format="mailto"
    						href="mailto:usaf.pentagon.saf-aq.mbx.saf-aqc-workflow@mail.mil"
    						scope="external">
						<u>SAF/AQC</u>
					</xref> after coordination by the SCO. Allow 18 days for staffing and SPE approval after receipt by <xref format="mailto"
    						href="mailto:usaf.pentagon.saf-aq.mbx.saf-aq-workflow@mail.mil"
    						scope="external">
						<u>SAF/AQ</u>
					</xref>. J&amp;A packages submitted to SAF/AQ shall include an electronic Staff Summary Sheet (<ph>
						<u>eSSS</u>
					</ph>
					<ph/>) in the body of the email or as an attachment (Word document only). Include the approved acquisition strategy (or a draft acquisition strategy if the strategy document has not been approved) with the J&amp;A package, and list each attachment under “Tabs” on the <xref format="docx"
    						href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/Documents/eSSS.docx"
    						scope="external">
						<u>eSSS</u>
					</xref> using the exact electronic file name (e.g., ACE Acquisition Strategy) of the corresponding attachment. If a J&amp;A supports an indefinite-delivery type contract, see AFFARS <ph outputclass="AFFARS">
						<xref format="dita"
    							href="5316_504.dita"
    							outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">5316.504</xref>
					</ph>(c)(1)(ii)(D) for processing instructions. The SCO may authorize solicitation release after the justification is reviewed for adequacy and forwarded to <xref format="mailto"
    						href="mailto:usaf.pentagon.saf-aq.mbx.saf-aq-workflow@mail.mil"
    						scope="external">
						<u>SAF/AQ</u>
					</xref>
					<ph>
						<u>and</u>
					</ph>
					<xref format="mailto"
    						href="mailto:usaf.pentagon.saf-aq.mbx.saf-aqc-workflow@mail.mil"
    						scope="external">
						<u>SAF/AQC</u>
					</xref>. Submit questions or concerns regarding processing a J&amp;A for SPE approval to <xref format="mailto"
    						href="mailto:usaf.pentagon.saf-aq.mbx.saf-aqc-workflow@mail.mil"
    						scope="external">
						<u>SAF/AQC</u>
					</xref>.</p>
				<ol>
					<li outputclass="Normal (Web)">
						<p>(4) Changes recommended during the staffing process must be adjudicated by the contracting officer in coordination with SAF/AQC prior to submitting the J&amp;A to the SPE for approval.</p>
					</li>
					<li outputclass="List 1">
						<p outputclass="List 1">(e) <u>Prior to contract award:</u> After a J&amp;A has been approved, but prior to contract award, if the dollar value of the contract is expected to exceed the original J&amp;A approval authority, the contracting officer must submit an amended J&amp;A to the appropriate approving authority for approval. The amended J&amp;A shall identify the dollar increase from the initial, approved J&amp;A.</p>
					</li>
					<li outputclass="List 1">
						<p outputclass="List 1">(f) <u>After contract award:</u> When a proposed contract action is for new work outside the scope of the original contract, the contracting officer must submit a new J&amp;A as a stand-alone document to the appropriate approving authority based on the dollar value of the contract action for the new work. New work should not commence until the new J&amp;A is approved unless authorized in accordance with FAR <ph outputclass="FAR">6.302-2</ph>, Unusual and Compelling Urgency. See <xref base="DFARS_5343_102_90"
    								href="5343_102-90.dita#AFFARS_5343_102_90"
    								outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">5343.102-90</xref> regarding contract scope considerations.</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<p>(g) A new J&amp;A is not required for:</p>
						<ol>
							<li outputclass="List 2">
								<p outputclass="List 2">(1) a decrease in the dollar value or scope of the effort; or</p>
							</li>
							<li outputclass="List 2">
								<p outputclass="List 2">(2) an increase in the estimated dollar value of in-scope work, except as described in (e) above.</p>
							</li>
						</ol>
						<p/>
						<p/>
					</li>
				</ol>
				<p outputclass="Normal">See <ph outputclass="AFMC PGI">
						<xref format="dita"
    							href="AFMC_PGI_5306_304.dita"
    							outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">AFMC PGI 5306.304</xref>
					</ph>.</p>
				<p id="p__Toc38364623"
 					outputclass="Normal (Web)">See <ph outputclass="SMC PGI">
						<xref format="dita"
    							href="SMC_PGI_5306_304.dita"
    							outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">SMC PGI 5306.304</xref>
					</ph>.</p>
			</conbody>
		</concept>
	</dita>