<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DAFFARS_5307_103" class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title " rev="Revised June 12, 2024"> 
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5307.103</ph> Agency Head Responsibilities.</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p rev="Revised June 12, 2024" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) The tailorable Contract Type Determination and Findings template at <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5316-types-contracts#DAFFARS_5316_103"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">5316.103(d)</xref> may be used to document contract type selections for acquisitions not requiring a written acquisition plan. </p>
         <p rev="Revised June 12, 2024" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) Prepare written acquisition plans in accordance with <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-7#FAR_7_103"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">FAR 7.103</xref> and the dollar thresholds identified at <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/dfars/part-207-acquisition-planning#DFARS_207.103"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">DFARS 207.103(d)(i)</xref>. Notwithstanding the requirements <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/dfars/part-207-acquisition-planning#DFARS_207.103"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">DFARS 207.103(e)</xref>, acquisition plans may be written on a program basis when the requiring activity chooses to write a single plan for all known program actions or on an individual contract basis when there is only one contract, task or delivery order to be covered by the plan. An acquisition plan is not required for individual orders when the contract-level acquisition plan adequately covers all anticipated orders and the order is issued IAW the terms of the basic contract.</p>
         <p rev="Revised June 12, 2024" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(h) Contracting officers shall maintain decision support information in the contract file for acquisitions that do not require written acquisition plans as well as those that do. Where a written plan is not required, contract documentation such as memoranda for record, market research reports (i.e., <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/AQCP/KnowledgeCenter/SitePages/DAFFARS-Templates.aspx"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">Streamlined Market Acquisition Approach Document (SMRAA)</xref>), and <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/AQCP/KnowledgeCenter/SitePages/DAFFARS-Templates.aspx"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">Streamlined Acquisition Strategy Summary (SASS)</xref> may be used to record acquisition pre-award decisions and risk assessment information. The acquisition team shall ensure consistency among requirements, acquisition planning, market research, and solicitation documents and, to the extent practicable, avoid duplication of information between documents (e.g., by referencing content).</p>
         <p rev="Revised June 12, 2024" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(i) Unless otherwise designated by the acquisition approving authority, the planner for acquisitions is the program manager, or other official responsible for the program (i.e., requiring activity). </p>
         <p rev="Revised June 12, 2024" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(j) The Senior Contracting Official (SCO) holds acquisition approving authority unless otherwise designated in <xref href="https://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_aq/publication/afi63-101_20-101/afi63-101_20-101.pdf"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">DAFI 63-101/20-101 </xref>, Integrated Life Cycle Management and <xref href="https://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_aq/publication/dafi63-138/dafi63-138.pdf"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">DAFI 63-138</xref>, Acquisition of Services. Unless otherwise prohibited by regulation or policy, the acquisition approving authority may delegate acquisition plan approval to one level above the contracting officer for other than firm-fixed-price contracts and the contracting officer for firm-fixed-price contracts. </p>
         <p rev="Revised June 12, 2024" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(l) An <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/AQCP/KnowledgeCenter/SitePages/DAFFARS-Templates.aspx"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">Acquisition Plan</xref> template is available for preparing written acquisition plans. </p>
         <p rev="Revised June 12, 2024" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(m) Only the acquisition approving authority may waive requirements of detail and formality.</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
