<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      xtrc="NoAutoListNumber"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="AFFARS_5309_103"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph outputclass="topicnum" class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5309.103</ph> Policy</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p ">(b)(i)  Section 1612 of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 (P.L. 115-91) requires SMC to establish and maintain a Contractor Responsibility Watch List (CRWL).  <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/affars_pgi_related_documents/SMCI_64-101.pdf"
                        scope="external"
                        format="pdf"
                        class="- topic/xref ">
                     <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">SMC Instruction (SMCI) 64-101</u>
                  </xref>, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Air Force Space Contractor Responsibility Watch List (CRWL)</i>
                  <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">
                     <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">,</i>
                  </b> establishes the CRWL and its applicability to “space program solicitations or contracts” (See AFFARS <ph outputclass="AFFARS" class="- topic/ph ">
                     <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           format="dita"
                           class="- topic/xref "
                           href="PART_5302.dita">5302</xref>
                  </ph>).</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(B) Financial concerns.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(C) Felony convictions or civil judgements.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(D) Security or foreign ownership and control issues.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(B) Entering into discussions (FAR <ph outputclass="FAR" class="- topic/ph ">15.306</ph>(d)) (or equivalent activity) or awarding a competitive contract or awarding a sole source contract.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(C) Providing consent to subcontract when the subcontract is valued in excess of $3M or 5% of the prime contract value, whichever is lesser.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(D) Exercising a contract option.</p>
         <p id="p__Toc38287285" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">(E) Executing a contract modification resulting from an engineering change proposal.</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
