<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
            id="AFFARS_5315_topic_9"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title id="title__Toc76043218" outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph "> 5315.403-1 </ph> Prohibition on Obtaining
      Certified Cost or Pricing Data ( 10 U.S.C. 2306a and 41 U.S.C. , Chapter 35 )</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b)<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> </i> See <xref href="MP5301_601.dita" class="- topic/xref ">MP5301.601(a)(i)</xref>.</p>
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Standards for exceptions from certified cost or pricing data requirements.</i>
			      </p>
			      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p "> (4) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Waivers. </i>
			      </p>
			      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(A) <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Exceptional case TINA waiver.</i> Submit the request for an exceptional case TINA waiver through the SCO to <xref href="mailto:SAF.AQ.SAF-AQC.Workflow@us.af.mil"
                  scope="external"
                  format="mailto"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">SAF/AQC</u>
				        </xref> for HCA approval (see <xref href="MP5301_601.dita" class="- topic/xref ">MP5301.601(a)(i)</xref> ). When the waiver is for a subcontractor who has refused to provide cost or pricing data to a prime contractor, the information required must cover both the prime contract and the subcontract. Contracting officers must submit a copy of all signed TINA waivers to HQ AFMC/PKF within 30 days of signature by the HCA. Submit the request for OUSD(A&amp;S)/DPC approval to use the exceptional circumstances waiver pursuant to Class Deviation 2019-O0008, Section 890 Pilot Program to Accelerate Contracting and Pricing Processes, to SAF/AQC with the Subject: “AFFARS 5315.403-1(c)(4)(A) – Section 890 Pilot Program to Accelerate Contracting and Pricing Processes.” </p>
			      <p outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(B) The SCO must consolidate and submit the information as outlined in <xref href="http://farsite.hill.af.mil/reghtml/regs/far2afmcfars/fardfars/dfars/PGI%20215_4.htm"
                  scope="external"
                  format="html"
                  class="- topic/xref "> DFARS PGI 215.403-1(c)(4)(B) </xref>, or submit a negative report for their organization, to <xref href="mailto:SAF.AQ.SAF-AQCP.Workflow@us.af.mil"
                  scope="external"
                  format="mailto"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">SAF/AQCP</u>
				        </xref> no later than 15 October each year. AFMC SCOs must submit their reports directly to HQ AFMC/PK no later than 15 October each year. HQ AFMC/PK must consolidate all of the SCO reports for AFMC and submit a final report to <xref href="mailto:SAF.AQ.SAF-AQCP.Workflow@us.af.mil"
                  scope="external"
                  format="mailto"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">SAF/AQCP</u>
				        </xref> no later than 8 November each year. SAF/AQCP will submit the annual report, Waiver of TINA Requirements, to OUSD(A&amp;S)/DPC. AFRCO will provide the information directly to the DAS(C)/ADAS(C), as appropriate.</p>
			      <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">See <xref href="AFICC_PGI_5315_403_1.dita" class="- topic/xref ">AFICC PGI 5315.403-1</xref>.</p>
			      <p id="p__Toc38364934" class="- topic/p ">See <xref href="AFMC_PGI_5315_403_1.dita" class="- topic/xref ">AFMC PGI 5315.403-1</xref> .</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
