<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DAFFARS_5315_405">
      <title class="- topic/title "> 
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5315.405</ph> Price Negotiation</title>
      <conbody>

        <p outputclass="List1">(d) In situations where a contractor inadequately supports the
proposed price as fair and reasonable despite all attempts by the
contracting officer to secure adequate justification through
negotiations, these situations should be elevated and documented as
described herein. When the contractor insists on a cost/price or
demands a profit or fee that the contracting officer considers
unreasonable, the contracting officer shall notify the authority
one level above the contracting officer and using the instructions
in the link immediately submit an <xref format="html"
                  href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/afcc/aqcinternal/aqcp/Lists/egregious_pricing_incident_report/AllItems.aspx"
                  scope="external">Egregious
Pricing Incident Report</xref> to <xref format="html"
                  href="mailto:SAF.AQ.SAF-AQC.Workflow@us.af.mil"
                  scope="external">SAF/AQC</xref>, and
the cognizant HCA Workflow (if HCA is other than DAS(C) or
ADAS(C)). The contracting officer shall also inform the contractor
that such action has been taken and continue to attempt to
negotiate a fair and reasonable cost/price.</p>
        <p outputclass="List2">(1) If the Egregious Pricing situation is not resolved through
negotiations, the offeror is ineligible for award unless the
cognizant HCA determines, in writing, that it is in the best
interest of the Government to make award to that offeror, based on
consideration of the following:</p>
        <p outputclass="List3">(i) The program or mission partner need for the item(s) or
service(s) in terms of the specific mission contribution;</p>
        <p outputclass="List3">(ii) The challenges to reaching and efforts made to reach a fair
and reasonable cost/price; and</p>
        <p outputclass="List3">(iii) Increased cost or harm to the Government if award is not
made.</p>

        <p outputclass="List2">(2) The PEO or Wing Commander (or other corresponding authority)
and SCO shall certify to the cognizant HCA that the conditions
listed in (d)(1) exist and award should be made. <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5301-federal-acquisition-regulations-system#DAFFARS_SUBPART_5301_7"
                  scope="external">DAFFARS
5301.7</xref> provides instructions for the submission of the
Determination and Findings (D&amp;F).</p>

        <p outputclass="List2">(3) Contracting officers, with coordination from the cognizant
SCO, must report price negotiation situations, where (d)(1)
applies, to the <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5302-definitions-words-and-terms"
                  scope="external">cognizant
HCA Workflow</xref> no later than 30 days after negotiations have
concluded. Update the <xref format="html"
                  href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/afcc/aqcinternal/aqcp/Lists/egregious_pricing_incident_report/AllItems.aspx"
                  scope="external">Egregious
Pricing Incident Report</xref> completed under paragraph (d) with
post-negotiation information and submit a copy of the final
negotiation memorandum and D&amp;F as attachments.</p>

        <p outputclass="List2">(4) The procedures specified in (d)(1-3) above apply to
situations where certified cost and pricing data are required and
to situations when certified cost and pricing data are not
required. If used in situations where other than certified cost or
pricing data is required and <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-15#FAR_15_403_3"
                  scope="external">FAR
15.403-3(a)(4)</xref> applies, contracting officers should also
complete reporting requirements required under DAFFARS <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5315-contracting-negotiation#DAFFARS_5315_403_3"
                  scope="external">5315.403-3(a)(6)(ii)</xref>
above.</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
</dita>
