<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DAFFARS_5333_290" class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title "> 
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5333.290</ph>  Claims and Terminations for Default</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) If a contractor submits an uncertified claim
exceeding $100,000, the contracting officer must notify the
contractor, in writing, of its failure to certify as required by
the Contract Disputes statute (<xref format="html"
                  href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=(title:41%20chapter:71%20edition:prelim)%20OR%20(granuleid:USC-prelim-title41-chapter71)&amp;f=treesort&amp;num=0&amp;edition=prelim"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">41
U.S.C. §§ 7101-7109</xref>). The notice must state that a
final decision will not be issued until the claim is certified.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/p ">(b) If the potential dispute regards any intellectual property (IP) matter, the contracting officer shall request DAF IP Cadre review by contacting the <xref href="mailto:SAF.AQ.SAF-AQCC.Workflow@us.af.mil"
                  format="AQ.SAF-AQCC.Workflow@us.af.mil.SAF-AQCC.Workflow@us.af.mil.Workflow@us.af.mil.af.mil.mil"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">DAF IP Cadre Workflow</xref>. The term "IP matter" includes, but is not limited to, failure to deliver IP (e.g., technical data, computer software, contract administration information) that complies with the contract, nonconforming/unjustified markings affixed to IP deliverables).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(<ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">c</ph>) Prior to making a final decision on a claim or termination for default (including a termination for cause under FAR Part 12), the contracting officer must refer the proposed final decision to the cognizant legal office for legal advice, ADR suitability, and appropriate dispute resolution strategies. The contracting officer, with the assistance of the cognizant legal office, must seek review by <xref format="html"
                  href="mailto:AF.JACQ.ContractLaw.FieldSupportCntr.Mbx@us.af.mil"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">AF/JACQ</xref> of all proposed final decisions. At the same time, the contracting officer must provide <xref format="html"
                  href="mailto:SAF.GCR.Workflow@us.af.mil"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">SAF/GCR</xref> with any proposed final decision on a claim involving PEO programs and any proposed final decision on a claim greater than $500,000. The contracting officer or the referring person must promptly notify <xref format="html"
                  href="mailto:SAF.GCR.Workflow@us.af.mil"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">SAF/GCR</xref> and their SCO with all known information relating to any recommended termination for default.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/p ">(d) The contracting officer must use ADR to the maximum extent practicable to resolve a Department of the Air Force affirmative contract claim (such as defective pricing, liquidated damages, etc.) when unassisted negotiations reach an impasse as determined by the SCO. The contracting officer must provide to <xref href="mailto:AF.JACQ.ContractLaw.FieldSupportCntr.Mbx@us.af.mil"
                  format="JACQ.ContractLaw.FieldSupportCntr.Mbx@us.af.mil.ContractLaw.FieldSupportCntr.Mbx@us.af.mil.FieldSupportCntr.Mbx@us.af.mil.Mbx@us.af.mil.af.mil.mil"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">AF/JACQ</xref>, with a copy to <xref href="mailto:SAF.GCR.Workflow@us.af.mil"
                  format="GCR.Workflow@us.af.mil.Workflow@us.af.mil.af.mil.mil"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">SAF/GCR</xref>, any audit or other findings indicating Department of the Air Force entitlement torecovery greater than $500,000 where unassisted negotiations have reached an impasse, in order to develop a dispute resolution strategy. Government claims must be formally asserted [issuance of a Contracting Officer’s Final Decision (<xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-33#FAR_33_206"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">FAR33.206</xref>)]within 6 years after the accrual of the claim.</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
