<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="AFFARS_5352_242_9001"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
      <title class="- topic/title " outputclass="Heading 3">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5352.242-9001</ph> Common Access Cards (CAC) for Contractor Personnel</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="Normal">As prescribed in <xref href="5342_490_2.dita" xtrc="AFFARS 5342.490-2"/> , insert a clause substantially the same as the following clause in solicitations and contracts:</p>
         <p id="p__Toc76485401" outputclass="Normal">
            <b>COMMON ACCESS CARDS (CAC) FOR CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (</b>
            <b>OCT 2019</b>
            <b>)</b>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(a) For installation(s)/location(s) cited in the contract, contractors shall ensure Common Access Cards (CACs) are obtained by all contract or subcontract personnel who meet one or both of the following criteria:</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Require logical access to Department of Defense computer networks and systems in either:</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" xtrf="CheckMapping">(i) the unclassified environment; or</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" xtrf="CheckMapping">(ii) the classified environment where authorized by governing security directives.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Perform work, which requires the use of a CAC for installation entry control or physical access to facilities and buildings.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(b) Contractors and their personnel shall use the following procedures to obtain CACs:</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Contractors shall provide a listing of personnel who require a CAC to the contracting officer. The government will provide the contractor instruction on how to complete the Contractor Verification System (CVS) application and then notify the contractor when approved. </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Contractor personnel shall obtain a CAC from the nearest Real Time Automated Personnel Identification Documentation System (RAPIDS) Issuing Facility (typically the local Military Personnel Flight (MPF)).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(c) While visiting or performing work on installation(s)/location(s), contractor personnel shall wear or prominently display the CAC as required by the governing local policy.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(d) During the performance period of the contract, the contractor shall:</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(1) Within 7 working days of any changes to the listing of the contract personnel authorized a CAC, provide an updated listing to the contracting officer who will provide the updated listing to the authorizing government official;</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(2) Return CACs in accordance with local policy/directives within 7 working days of a change in status for contractor personnel who no longer require logical or physical access;</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(3) Return CACs in accordance with local policy/directives within 7 working days following a CACs expiration date; and</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">(4) Report lost or stolen CACs in accordance with local policy/directives.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(e) Within 7 working days following completion/termination of the contract, the contractor shall return all CACs issued to their personnel to the issuing office or the location specified by local policy/directives.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">(f) Failure to comply with these requirements may result in withholding of final payment.</p>
         <p id="p_p53522479000" outputclass="List4">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
