<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="AFFARS_5352_242_9000"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title " outputclass="Heading 3">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5352.242-9000</ph> Contractor Access to Air Force
      Installations</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <xref href="5342_490_1.dita"
                  class="- topic/xref "
                  xtrc="AFFARS 5342.490-1"/> , insert a clause substantially the same as
        the following clause in solicitations and contracts:</p>
         <p id="p__Toc76485399" outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">CONTRACTOR ACCESS TO AIR FORCE INSTALLATIONS (</b>
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">OCT 2019</b>
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">)</b>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) The contractor shall obtain base identification
        and vehicle passes, if required, for all contractor personnel who make frequent visits to or
        perform work on the Air Force installation(s) cited in the contract. Contractor personnel
        are required to wear or prominently display installation identification badges or
        contractor-furnished, contractor identification badges while visiting or performing work on
        the installation.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) The contractor shall submit a written request on
        company letterhead to the contracting officer listing the following: contract number,
        location of work site, start and stop dates, and names of employees and subcontractor
        employees needing access to the base. The letter will also specify the individual(s)
        authorized to sign for a request for base identification credentials or vehicle passes. The
        contracting officer will endorse the request and forward it to the issuing base pass and
        registration office or Security Forces for processing. When reporting to the registration
        office, the authorized contractor individual(s) should provide a valid driver’s license,
        current vehicle registration, valid vehicle insurance certificate, and [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">insert any additional requirements to comply with local
            security procedures</u>
            </i>] to obtain a vehicle pass.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) During performance of the contract, the
        contractor shall be responsible for obtaining required identification for newly assigned
        personnel and for prompt return of credentials and vehicle passes for any employee who no
        longer requires access to the work site. </p>
         <p id="p_P347_28496" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) When work under this contract
        requires unescorted entry to controlled or restricted areas, the contractor shall comply
        with <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">[</i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">insert any additional requirements to comply with</u>
            </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u "> </u>
            </i>
            <xref href="http://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/af_a4/publication/afi31-101/generic_wms.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
                  <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">AFI 31-101</u>
               </i>
            </xref>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">, Integrated Defense, and </u>
            </i>
            <xref href="https://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_aa/publication/dodman5200.02_afman16-1405/dodm5200.02_afman16-1405.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
                  <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DODMAN5200.02_AFMAN 16-1405</u>
               </i>
            </xref>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">, Air Force Personnel Security Program</u>
            </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">]</i> citing the appropriate paragraphs as applicable.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) Upon completion or termination of the contract
        or expiration of the identification passes, the prime contractor shall ensure that all base
        identification passes issued to employees and subcontractor employees are returned to the
        issuing office.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) Failure to comply with these requirements may
        result in withholding of final payment.</p>
         <p id="p__Toc38365567" outputclass="List4" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
