<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DAFFARS_5352_228-9101">
      <title class="- topic/title "> 
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5352.228-9101</ph> Insurance Certificate Requirement in Spain (USAFE)</title>
      <conbody>
        <p>As prescribed at <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5328-bonds-and-insurance#DAFFARS_5328_310_90"
                  scope="external">DAFFARS
5328.310-90</xref>, insert the following clause in solicitations and
contracts:</p>
        <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps"> INSURANCE CERTIFICATE
                                REQUIREMENT IN SPAIN (USAFE) (JUN 2023) </p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(a) Below follows the Insurance Certificate
required for any Third Country National (TCN) contractor, other
than U.S. or Spanish, required for use under this contract. The
certificate is provided to standardize base access procedures. It
must be completed and signed by the policyholder and the
insurer.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(b) The amount of coverage minimum is 90,151.82
Euros per insured party (personal injury), 60,101.21 Euros per
accident (property damage), and 6, 010.12 Euros security deposit
for legal fees. In all cases the amount of coverage, if different
from the above amounts, will be determined by the insurer, except
in situations where the minimum coverage applies.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">
(c) The request for base access and the insurance certificate
should be processed in accordance with <xref format="html" href="https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil/" scope="external">DoD Foreign Clearance
Guide</xref> instructions for Spain.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">
(d) Complete the following certification:</p>
        <p id="p53522379001">Certificate of Insurance</p>
        <p>CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE COVERAGE OF THE CIVIL LIABILITY
REFERRED TO UNDER ARTICLE 5 OF ANNEX 6 TO THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE
KINGDOM OF SPAIN AND THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA ON COOPERATION
FOR THE DEFENSE.</p>
        <p>The insurance
Company____­­___________________________________________with
legal domicile in
____________________________________________________­­­­­___________
Tel:__________________________of Spanish/US nationality, registered
in the Mercantile Registry
of_______________________________________</p>
        <p>Date:_________________­­___­, Number________,
Book:_______, Section _____, Volume________, Page_______.</p>
        <p>CERTIFIES</p>
        <p>That <u>(insert contractor or company name)</u> of ___________
nationality has contracted with this company Policy
Number_______________ of civil liability against damages to persons
or property which could arise from actions or omissions committed
by any of their employees in the performance of their official
functions/professional activities in Spain because of the contracts
signed with U.S. Forces, and during the visit which, in respect of
such contract, they may make to Spain, according to the general
conditions in force for this type of insurance and also to the
special conditions created for this purpose in the Spanish-U.S.
Permanent Committee; that said company has paid the premium
according to the agreed conditions; and that such Policy is in
force.</p>
        <p>The Policy establishes as coverage of the mentioned risks the
following amounts:</p>
        <p>
            <b>
               <u>INDEMNITY LIMITS</u>
            </b>
            <u>:</u>
        </p>
        <p>- For casualty: --------------------------601,012.10 Euros</p>
        <p>With the following sub-limits for each injured person:</p>
        <p>- For personal liability: ----------------90,151.82 Euros</p>
        <p>- For property damage: ---------------- 60,101.21 Euros</p>
        <p>- For Judiciary Bond: -------------------- 6,010.12 Euros</p>
        <p>The granted coverage is effective from ________________
through________________, and does not include any type of
franchise, or similar limitation, to be deducted from the mentioned
guarantees or any clause which requires the submission to any type
of arbitration. The underwriting insurance company considers that
the established amounts adequately cover the insured risks.</p>
        <p>The policy sets forth the following clauses:</p>
        <p>1. “The insurance company waives any right of subrogation
against the United States of America which may arise by reason of
any payment under this Policy.”</p>
        <p>2. “The parties hereto explicitly agree to submit to the
jurisdiction of the Spanish Courts of Law and to the Spanish Laws
to settle any matter related to the construction or enforcement of
the clauses and conditions of this Policy.”</p>
        <p>IN WITNESS HEREOF, the present document is signed
in______________________________,on
the____________of_____________20____</p>
        <p>______________________________________
___________________________________</p>
        <p>For the Insured Company <i>(signature)</i> For the Insurance
<i>(signature)</i>
        </p>
        <p>(Courtesy Translation)</p>
        <p>Certificado de Cobertura de Seguro</p>
        <p>CERTIFICADO DE COBERTURA DE SEGURO DE LA RESPONSABILIDAD CIVIL A
QUE SE REFIERE EL ARTICULO 5 DEL ANEXO 6 AL CONVENIO ENTRE EL REINO
DE ESPAÑA Y LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS DE AMERICA SOBRE COOPERACION
PARA LA DEFENSA.</p>
        <p>La Compañia de Seguros
______________________________________ con domicilio social en la
Calle/Avda./Pla.
____________________________________________________________________,
Tlfo.: _________________ , de nacionalidad
española/norteamericana, inscrita en el Registro Mercantil
de______________________________, fecha _________________,
Número ________, Libro _________, Sección ______, Tomo
_______, Folio_______.</p>
        <p>CERTIFICA:</p>
        <p>Que <u>___(nombre del individuo o la empresa)______________,</u>
de nacionalidad _________________________, tiene suscrita con esta
Compañia la Póliza número
____________________________, de responsabilidad civil contra
daños a personas y cosas que pudieran derivarse de acciones u
omisiones realizadas por sus empleados en el desempeño de sus
funciones oficiales/actividades profesionales en España con
ocasión de su contracto con las Fuerzas de los EE.UU. y con la
visita que en relación con dicho contrato realicen sus
empleados a España, según las condiciones generales
vigentes para este tipo de seguros y además las condiciones
especiales elaboradas a este fin en el Comité Permanente
Hispano-Norteamericano; habiéndose satisfecho la prima
según las condiciones pactadas, y encontrándose dicha
Póliza en vigor.</p>
        <p>La Póliza establece como cobertura de los riesgos
mencionados las siguientes cuantías:</p>
        <p>
            <b>
               <u>LIMITES DE INDEMNIZACION:</u>
            </b>
        </p>
        <p>- Por siniestro: -------------------------- 601.012,10 Euros</p>
        <p>Con los siguientes sublímites por perjudicado:</p>
        <p>- Por daños personales: ---------------- 90.151,82
Euros</p>
        <p>- Por daños materiales: ---------------- 60.101,21
Euros</p>
        <p>- Por fianzas judiciales: ----------------- 6.010,12 Euros</p>
        <p>Las coberturas otorgadas son efectivas desde el
___________________________, hasta el _________________________, no
incluyéndose en las mismas ningún tipo de franquicia o
limitación similar a deducir de las garantías indicadas
ni ninguna disposición que requiera la sumisión a
cualquier tipo de arbitraje. La Compañia aseguradora que
suscribe considera que las cuantías establecidas cubren
adecuadamente los riesgos asegurados.</p>
        <p>La Póliza establece las siguientes cláusulas:</p>
        <p>1. “La Compañia Aseguradora renuncia a cualquier
derecho de subrogación contra los Estados Unidos de
América que pueda provenir por razones diferentes a pago, bajo
la Póliza epígrafiada.”</p>
        <p>2. “Las partes se someten expresamente a la
jurisdicción de los tribunales españoles y al derecho
español para resolver cualquier cuestión relativa a la
interpretación o aplicación de las cláusulas y
condiciones de la Póliza.”</p>
        <p>Y para que conste a los efectos oportunos, se firma el presente
en __________________ a _______________ de _____________ 20___.</p>
        <p>___________________________________
______________________________________</p>
        <p>Tomador: Asegurador:</p>
        <p>(END OF CERTIFICATE)</p>
        <p>
(End of Clause)</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
</dita>
