<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita><concept id="DAFFARS_5352_242-9000">
      <title><ph props="autonumber">5352.242-9000</ph> Contractor Access to Air
Force Installations</title>
      <conbody>
        <p>As prescribed in <xref format="html" href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5342-contract-administration-and-audit-services#DAFFARS_5342_490_1" scope="external">DAFFARS
5342.490-1</xref>, insert a clause substantially the same as the
following clause in solicitations and contracts:</p>
        <p id="Toc76485399">
          <b>CONTRACTOR ACCESS TO AIR FORCE
INSTALLATIONS (OCT 2023)</b>
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(a) The contractor shall obtain base
identification and vehicle passes, if required, for all contractor
personnel who make frequent visits to or perform work on the Air
Force installation(s) cited in the contract. Contractor personnel
are required to wear or prominently display installation
identification badges or contractor-furnished, contractor
identification badges while visiting or performing work on the
installation.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(b) The contractor shall submit a written request
on company letterhead to the contracting officer listing the
following: contract number, location of work site, start and stop
dates, and names of employees and subcontractor employees needing
access to the base. The letter will also specify the individual(s)
authorized to sign for a request for base identification
credentials or vehicle passes. The contracting officer will endorse
the request and forward it to the issuing base pass and
registration office or Security Forces for processing. When
reporting to the registration office, the authorized contractor
individual(s) should provide a valid driver’s license,
current vehicle registration, valid vehicle insurance certificate,
and [<i>
            <u>insert any additional requirements to comply with local
security procedures</u>
          </i>] to obtain a vehicle pass.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(c) During performance of the contract, the
contractor shall be responsible for obtaining required
identification for newly assigned personnel and for prompt return
of credentials and vehicle passes for any employee who no longer
requires access to the work site.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(d) When work under this contract requires
unescorted entry to controlled or restricted areas, the contractor
shall comply with <i>[<u>insert any additional requirements to
comply with</u>
          </i>
          
          <xref format="html" href="http://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/af_a4/publication/afi31-101/generic_wms.pdf" scope="external">
            <i>AFI
31-101</i>
          </xref>
          <i>
            <u>, Integrated Defense, and</u>
          </i>
          <xref format="html" href="https://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_aa/publication/dodman5200.02_afman16-1405/dodm5200.02_afman16-1405.pdf" scope="external">
            <i>DODMAN5200.02_AFMAN
16-1405</i>
          </xref>
          <i>
            <u>, Air Force Personnel Security
Program</u>
          </i>
          
          <i>]</i> citing the
appropriate paragraphs as applicable.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(e) Upon completion or termination of the contract or expiration
of the identification passes, the prime contractor shall ensure
that all base identification passes issued to employees and
subcontractor employees are returned to the issuing office.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(f) Failure to comply with these requirements may
result in withholding of final payment.</p>
        <p id="p53522429001">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
    </concept></dita>