<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN"
        	"/home/ec2-user/ditatool/dita-ot-2.5.4/plugins/org.oasis-open.dita.v1_3/dtd/technicalContent/dtd/ditabase.dtd">
	<dita xtrc="NoAutoListNumber">
		<concept id="AFFARS_5352_242_9001">
			<title>
				<ph outputclass="topicnum"
  					props="autonumber">5352.242-9001</ph> Common Access Cards (CAC) for Contractor Personnel</title>
			<conbody>
				<p outputclass="Normal">As prescribed in AFFARS <ph outputclass="AFFARS">
						<xref format="dita"
    							href="5342_490-2.dita"
    							outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">5342.490-2</xref>
					</ph>, insert a clause substantially the same as the following clause in solicitations and contracts:</p>
				<p outputclass="Normal">
					<b>COMMON ACCESS CARDS (CAC) FOR CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL (OCT 2019)</b>
				</p>
				<ol>
					<li outputclass="List 1">
						<p outputclass="List 1">(a) For installation(s)/location(s) cited in the contract, contractors shall ensure Common Access Cards (CACs) are obtained by all contract or subcontract personnel who meet one or both of the following criteria:</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<ol>
							<li outputclass="List 2">
								<p outputclass="List 2">(1) Require logical access to Department of Defense computer networks and systems in either:</p>
							</li>
							<li>
								<ol>
									<li outputclass="List 3">
										<p outputclass="List 3">(i) the unclassified environment; or</p>
									</li>
									<li outputclass="List 3">
										<p outputclass="List 3">(ii) the classified environment where authorized by governing security directives.</p>
									</li>
								</ol>
							</li>
							<li outputclass="List 2">
								<p outputclass="List 2">(2) Perform work, which requires the use of a CAC for installation entry control or physical access to facilities and buildings.</p>
							</li>
						</ol>
					</li>
					<li outputclass="List 1">
						<p outputclass="List 1">(b) Contractors and their personnel shall use the following procedures to obtain CACs:</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<ol>
							<li outputclass="List 2">
								<p outputclass="List 2">(1) Contractors shall provide a listing of personnel who require a CAC to the contracting officer. The government will provide the contractor instruction on how to complete the Contractor Verification System (CVS) application and then notify the contractor when approved.</p>
							</li>
							<li outputclass="List 2">
								<p outputclass="List 2">(2) Contractor personnel shall obtain a CAC from the nearest Real Time Automated Personnel Identification Documentation System (RAPIDS) Issuing Facility (typically the local Military Personnel Flight (MPF)).</p>
							</li>
						</ol>
					</li>
					<li outputclass="List 1">
						<p outputclass="List 1">(c) While visiting or performing work on installation(s)/location(s), contractor personnel shall wear or prominently display the CAC as required by the governing local policy.</p>
					</li>
					<li outputclass="List 1">
						<p outputclass="List 1">(d) During the performance period of the contract, the contractor shall:</p>
					</li>
					<li>
						<ol>
							<li outputclass="List 2">
								<p outputclass="List 2">(1) Within 7 working days of any changes to the listing of the contract personnel authorized a CAC, provide an updated listing to the contracting officer who will provide the updated listing to the authorizing government official;</p>
							</li>
							<li outputclass="List 2">
								<p outputclass="List 2">(2) Return CACs in accordance with local policy/directives within 7 working days of a change in status for contractor personnel who no longer require logical or physical access;</p>
							</li>
							<li outputclass="List 2">
								<p outputclass="List 2">(3) Return CACs in accordance with local policy/directives within 7 working days following a CACs expiration date; and</p>
							</li>
							<li outputclass="List 2">
								<p outputclass="List 2">(4) Report lost or stolen CACs in accordance with local policy/directives.</p>
							</li>
						</ol>
					</li>
					<li outputclass="List 1">
						<p outputclass="List 1">(e) Within 7 working days following completion/termination of the contract, the contractor shall return all CACs issued to their personnel to the issuing office or the location specified by local policy/directives.</p>
					</li>
					<li outputclass="List 1">
						<p outputclass="List 1">(f) Failure to comply with these requirements may result in withholding of final payment.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
				<p id="p_p53522479000"
 					outputclass="Normal (Web)">(End of clause)</p>
				<p id="p__Toc351655652">PART 5353 –</p>
				<p>Forms</p>
			</conbody>
		</concept>
	</dita>