<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
            id="AFFARS_pgi_5301_topic_4"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph "> AF PGI 5301.170-2 </ph> Pre-award Peer Reviews</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) For Competitive Actions valued at $1B or more: [See <xref href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/policy/policyvault/Class_Deviation_2019-O0010-DPC.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DFARS Class Deviation 2019-O0010</u>
				        </xref>, Peer Reviews of Competitive Contracts for Supplies and Services (OUSD(A&amp;S)/DPC Memo, 6 Sep 19)].</p>
			      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) Phase 1 Peer Reviews (prior to issuance of the solicitation) may occur before or after the Business Clearance Session with the DAS(C)/ADAS(C) (see MP5301.9001(i)(1)(i)(B). The assigned SAF/AQC action officer communicates with the OUSD(A&amp;S)/DPC Peer Review program coordinator regarding the specific timing of the review. Subsequent to a successful Business Clearance Session with the DAS(C)/ADAS(C), the contracting officer uploads the required pre-negotiation clearance documents to the <xref href="http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/cpic/cp/peer_reviews.html"
                  scope="external"
                  format="html"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DoD Peer Review</u>
				        </xref> website.</p>
			      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) Phase 2 Peer Reviews (prior to request for final proposal revisions, if applicable) may occur before or after the Contract Clearance. Coordinate the timing of the review with the CAA prior to proceeding. The contracting officer is responsible for coordinating the timing of the review with the OUSD(A&amp;S)/DPC Peer Review program coordinator. Subsequent to a successful Contract Clearance Session, the contracting officer uploads the required clearance documents to the <xref href="http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/cpic/cp/peer_reviews.html"
                  scope="external"
                  format="html"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DoD Peer Review</u>
				        </xref> website.</p>
			      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) Phase 3 Peer Reviews (prior to contract award) occur after the Contract Clearance Session with the CAA. The contracting officer is responsible for coordinating the timing of the review with the OUSD(A&amp;S)/DPC Peer Review program coordinator and uploading the appropriate documents to the <xref href="http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/cpic/cp/peer_reviews.html"
                  scope="external"
                  format="html"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DoD Peer Review</u>
				        </xref> website. The contract may not be awarded until all Peer Review recommendations have been addressed. </p>
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) For noncompetitive actions valued at $500M or more:</p>
			      <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1)<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b "> </b>Phase 1 Peer Reviews (prior to commencement of negotiations) occur after the Business Clearance Session with the DAS(C)/ADAS(C) (see MP5301.9001(i)(1)(i)(A)<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(8)</i>). The assigned SAF/AQC action officer communicates with the OUSD(A&amp;S)/DPC Peer Review program coordinator concerning the specific timing of the review. Subsequent to a successful Business Clearance Session with the DAS(C)/ADAS(C), the contracting officer uploads the required pre-negotiation clearance documents to the <xref href="mailto:AFICA.KP.Workflow@us.af.mil"
                  scope="external"
                  format="mailto"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DoD Peer Review</u>
				        </xref> website.</p>
			      <p id="p__AF_PGI_5301.170-3" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) For Phase 2 Peer Reviews (prior to contract award), the assigned SAF/AQC action officer communicates with the OUSD(A&amp;S)/DPC Peer Review program coordinator concerning the specific timing of the review. The contracting officer uploads the <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/templates/final_PNM.docx"
                  scope="external"
                  format="docx"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Final Price Negotiation Memorandum</u>
				        </xref> to the <xref href="http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/cpic/cp/peer_reviews.html"
                  scope="external"
                  format="html"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DoD Peer Review</u>
				        </xref> website and emails a copy of the Final PNM to <xref href="mailto:usaf.pentagon.saf-aq.list.mla-df-saf-aqc@mail.mil?subject=Final%20PNM"
                  scope="external"
                  format="mailto"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">SAF/AQC</u>
				        </xref>. On a case-by-case basis, additional supporting documentation may be requested in support of the Peer Review. The contract may not be awarded until disposition of any Peer Review recommendations.</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
