<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "/home/ec2-user/ditatool/dita-ot-2.5.4/plugins/org.oasis-open.dita.v1_3/dtd/technicalContent/dtd/ditabase.dtd">
<dita xtrc="NoAutoListNumber">
   <concept id="AFFARS_AFFARS_PGI_5305_201">
      <title>
         <ph outputclass="topicnum" props="autonumber">AFFARS PGI 5305.201</ph> General</title>
      <conbody>
         <ol>
            <li>
               <p>(d) There are several notice categories to choose from in Federal Business Opportunities (FBO). Using the right label helps industry better identify the intent of the notice and to identify relevant opportunities. The table below provides guidance on selecting the right notice. When posting to FBO, use the Synopsis Type (column 4), not the Acquisition Phase (column 1).</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>(1)</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <table colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <tgroup cols="4">
               <colspec colname="1" colnum="1" colwidth="45*"/>
               <colspec colname="2" colnum="2" colwidth="9*"/>
               <colspec colname="3" colnum="3" colwidth="46*"/>
               <colspec colname="4" colnum="4" colwidth="1*"/>
               <thead>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>
                           <b>Acquisition</b>
                        </p>
                        <p>
                           <b>Phase</b>
                        </p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>
                           <b>Purpose of Synopsis</b>
                        </p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>
                           <b>FAR References</b>
                        </p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>
                           <b>Notice Type</b>
                        </p>
                        <p>(as listed on FBO)</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
               </thead>
               <tbody>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Pre-solicitation</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- Business fairs​</p>
                        <p>- Long-range procurement estimates</p>
                        <p>- Small business events</p>
                        <p>- Broad market surveys</p>
                        <p>- Industry Days (for information exchanges prior to drafting solicitation)</p>
                        <p>- Draft Solicitation</p>
                        <p>- Notice of Presolicitation Conference (may be used in conjunction with draft solicitations)</p>
                        <p>- Request for Information (RFI)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>5.205(c)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Special Notice</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- RFI; when utilizing the authority at FAR <ph outputclass="FAR">6.302-1</ph>
                        </p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>DFARS PGI <ph outputclass="DFARS PGI">206.302-1</ph>(d)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry/>
                     <entry/>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- To determine possible sources</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>15.201(c)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Sources Sought</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry/>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>-When utilizing the authority at FAR <ph outputclass="FAR">6.302-1</ph>
                        </p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>DFARS PGI <ph outputclass="DFARS PGI">206.302-1</ph>(d)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry/>
                     <entry/>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- Notice of Bundling</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>DFARS <ph outputclass="DFARS">205.205-70</ph>
                        </p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Intent to Bundle Requirements</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry/>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry/>
                     <entry>
                        <p>5.203(a)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Presolicitation</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry/>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- Notice of intent to solicit and negotiate with only one source (Sole Source)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>5.203(a)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry/>
                     <entry/>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Solicitation</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- Final RFP</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>5.201</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Solicitation 1</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- Amend a solicitation</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>15.206</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Mod/Amendment 2</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry/>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- Notice of Pre-Proposal/Pre-Bid Conference</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>5.205(c)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Special Notice</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry/>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- Commercial Item combined RFP and synopsis</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>12.603</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Combined Synopsis/Solicitation</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry/>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- Notice of Solicitation Cancellation</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>5.207(f)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Cancellation</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry/>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>-Sale of surplus property (Informal invitations for bid)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>DFARS <ph outputclass="DFARS">246.604-3</ph>
                        </p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Sale of Surplus Property</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry/>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Award</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- Award greater than $25,000</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>5.301</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Award Notice</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- Approved J&amp;A (redacted)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>6.305</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Justification &amp; Approval</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry/>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- Exception to Fair Opportunity provision (redacted)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>16.505</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Fair Opportunity</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry/>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- LSJ (redacted)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>8.405-6</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Limited Sources Justification</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry/>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Post Award</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>- Modification (new work) not covered under previous synopsis</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>5.201(b)(1)(ii)</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Award Notice</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
         </table>
         <p outputclass="Normal">
            <b>1</b> When posting a final RFP and upon login to the FBO homepage, the PCO selects “Mod/Amend Notice”. Upload final RFP documents to FBO via a modification to an existing Presolicitation Notice. At the screen where the documents are uploaded, the PCO identifies the upload as a Solicitation package type in order for the synopsis to post properly.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">
            <b>2</b> When posting an RFP amendment and upon login to the FBO homepage, the PCO selects “Mod/Amend Notice”. Upload amendment documents to FBO via modification to an existing Solicitation Notice. At the screen where the documents are uploaded, the PCO identifies the upload as a Mod/Amendment package type in order for the synopsis to post properly.</p>
         <ol>
            <li>
               <p>(2) Description of FBO Types of Procurement Notices</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>(i) Presolicitation: The pre-solicitation notice makes vendors aware that a solicitation may follow. Vendors may add themselves to the Interested Vendors List, if the posting agency has enabled this feature. This helps Government agencies determine if there are qualified vendors to perform the work scope, and allows the contracting office to gather information on the interested vendors. The presolicitation notice also helps the Government determine if the requirement can be set-aside for a small business if capable small businesses respond.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>(ii) Combined Synopsis/Solicitation: Most opportunities classified this way are open for bids from eligible vendors. These opportunities include specifications for the product or service requested and a due date for the proposal. The notice will specify bidding procedures in the details of the solicitation.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>(iii) Sources Sought: The Sources Sought notice is a synopsis posted by a Government agency seeking possible sources for a project. It is not a solicitation for work or a request for proposal. For more information, see FAR 7.3 and OMB Circular A-76.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>(iv) Special Notice: Agencies use Special Notices to announce events like business fairs, long-range procurement estimates, pre-bid/pre-proposal conferences, industry days, meetings, and the availability of draft solicitations or draft specifications for review.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>(v) Sale of Surplus Property: When the federal Government no longer needs federal real estate properties, they may make these properties available for public use to state and local Governments, regional agencies, or nonprofit organizations to state and local Governments. Public uses for properties are those that are accessible to and can be shared by all members of a community, and include community centers, schools and colleges, parks, municipal buildings and many more.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>(vi) Justification and Approval (J&amp;A): This type of notice is required to justify and obtain approval to award a contract without posting a solicitation as required by the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR).<xref format="html"
                        href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-1999-title41-section253&amp;num=0&amp;edition=1999"
                        scope="external">41 U.S.C. 253(c)</xref> and<xref format="html"
                        href="http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=%28title:10%20section:2304c%20edition:prelim%29"
                        scope="external">10 U.S.C. 2304(c)</xref> authorize, under certain conditions, contracting without providing for full and open competition. The Department of Defense, Coast Guard, and National Aeronautics and Space Administration are subject to 10 U.S.C. 2304(c). Other executive agencies are subject to 41 U.S.C. 253(c). Contracting without providing for full and open competition or full and open competition after exclusion of sources is a violation of statute, unless permitted by one of the exceptions in FAR 6.302.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>(vii) Fair Opportunity/Limited Sources Justification: FAR 5.301 requires that contracting officers post their justifications on FBO whenever they make a delivery/task order award under a multiple-award IDV and do not provide for fair opportunity.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>(viii) Foreign Government Standard: This notice is for when the Government intends to solicit and negotiate with only one source under the authority of FAR 6.302-1. This is a notice of intent, but is not a request for competitive proposals. However, agencies may consider proposals received within a set number of days after date of publication of the notice.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>(ix) Intent to Bundle Requirements (DoD-Funded): Supports requirement for contracting officers post a notice of intent to use contract bundling procedures 30 days prior to releasing a solicitation or placing an order (if a solicitation is not required). This requirement applies to all federal agencies awarding actions funded solely with DoD funds (See DFARS 205.205-70(a)).</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>(x) Award Notice: When a federal agency awards a contract in response to a solicitation, they may choose to upload a notice of the award to allow the interested vendors to view the vendor receiving the awarded contract, and amount agreed upon. However, requirement guidelines for posting the award notice vary based upon the agency and the solicitation. Note: An award notice does not always contain a solicitation number.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
