<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="AFFARS_AF_PGI_5317_9000"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph "> AF PGI 5317.9000 </ph> Associate Contractor
      Agreements</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">“Associate Contractor Agreements” (ACA) are agreements between
        contractors working on government contracts or projects that specify requirements for them
        to share information, data, technical knowledge, expertise, or resources. </p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">Prime contractor to subcontractor relationships do not constitute ACAs,
        and are not subject to this section’s requirements. The contracting officer may require ACAs
        when contractors working on separate Government contracts must cooperate, share resources or
        otherwise jointly participate in working on contracts or projects. The contractor should
        tailor each ACA to the requirements of the individual contracting situation and may consult
        with the contracting officer as required. Suggested Contract Language for Statement of Work
        or Performance Work Statement:</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(a) The Contractor </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">should </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">enter into Associate Contractor Agreements (ACA) for any
          portion of the contract requiring joint participation in the accomplishment of the
          Government’s requirement. The agreements </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">should </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">include the basis for sharing information, data, technical
          knowledge, expertise, and/or resources essential to the integration of the (</i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">insert name of the program or project)</u>
            </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">, </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">to </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">ensure </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">the greatest degree of cooperation for the development of the
          program to meet the terms of the contract. Associate contractors are listed in (g)
          below.</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(b) ACAs </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">should </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">include the following general information: </i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(1) Identify the associate contractors and their
          relationships.</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(2) Identify the program involved and the relevant Government
          contracts of the associate contractors.</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(3) Describe the associate contractor interfaces by general
          subject matter.</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(4) Specify the categories of information to be exchanged or
          support to be provided.</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(5) Include the expiration date (or event) of the ACA.</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(6) Identify potential conflicts between relevant Government
          contracts and the ACA; include agreements on protection of proprietary data and
          restrictions on employees.</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List5" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(c) </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Provide a</i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> copy of such agreement to the Contracting Officer for review
          before execution of the document by the cooperating contractors.</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List5" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(d) The Contractor is not relieved of any contract
          requirements or entitled to any adjustments to the contract terms because of a failure to
          resolve a disagreement with an associate contractor.</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List5" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(e) Liability for the improper disclosure of any proprietary
          data contained in or referenced by any agreement rests with the parties to the agreement,
          and not the Government.</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List5" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(f) All costs associated with the agreements are included in
          the negotiated cost of this contract. Agreements may be amended as required by the
          Government during the performance of this contract.</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List5" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(g) The following contractors are associate contractors with
          whom agreements are required:</i>
         </p>
         <table id="tbl_afpgi_5317_9000" class="- topic/table ">
            <tgroup cols="3" class="- topic/tgroup ">
               <colspec colname="c1"
                        colwidth="1*"
                        rowheader="headers"
                        class="- topic/colspec "/>
               <colspec colname="c2"
                        colwidth="1*"
                        rowheader="headers"
                        class="- topic/colspec "/>
               <colspec colname="c3"
                        colwidth="2*"
                        rowheader="headers"
                        class="- topic/colspec "/>
               <thead class="- topic/thead ">
                  <row class="- topic/row ">
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p class="- topic/p ">
                           <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Contractor</b>
                        </p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p class="- topic/p ">
                           <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Address</b>
                        </p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p class="- topic/p ">
                           <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Program / Contract</b>
                        </p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
               </thead>
               <tbody class="- topic/tbody ">
                  <row class="- topic/row ">
                     <entry class="- topic/entry "/>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry "/>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry "/>
                  </row>
                  <row class="- topic/row ">
                     <entry class="- topic/entry "/>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry "/>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry "/>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
         </table>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
