<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN"
        	"ditabase.dtd">
	<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
    		xtrc="NoAutoListNumber"
    		domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
    		ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
		<concept id="AFFARS_AFICC_PGI_5301_90"
       			xml:lang="en-US"
       			ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
       			class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
       			domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
			<title class="- topic/title ">
				<ph outputclass="topicnum"
  					class="- topic/ph "
  					props="autonumber">AFICC PGI 5301.90</ph> Clearance</title>
			<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">The standard <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10074/afcc/aficc/kp/kpp/training/sitepages/clearance.aspx"
    						scope="external"
    						format="aspx"
    						class="- topic/xref ">
						<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">AFICC Clearance</u>
					</xref> process is typically used for all contract actions requiring clearance. The contracting officer typically allows at least 5 business days after receipt of a complete clearance request package by the cognizant AFICC reviewing office for completion of a clearance review.  Clearance request packages received after 1300 local time should be logged as received the following business day.  Additionally, contracting officers should anticipate approximately 3 additional business days for Clearance Approval Authority (CAA) review. Clearance Reviews should be accomplished using <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/11191/KTFSApp/app/index.aspx"
    						scope="external"
    						format="aspx"
    						class="- topic/xref ">
						<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">KT </u>
						<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">FileShare</u>
					</xref>
					<ph class="- topic/ph ">
						<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">.</u>
					</ph>
				</p>
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Business and Contract Clearance Approvals</b>
				</p>
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">Prior to requesting clearance, the contracting officer should ensure all required clearance documentation is uploaded to <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/11191/KTFSApp/app/index.aspx"
    						scope="external"
    						format="aspx"
    						class="- topic/xref ">
						<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">KT </u>
						<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">FileShare</u>
					</xref>, followed by an e-mail to the cognizant AFICC OL workflow account requesting assignment of a Clearance Reviewer.  When the CAA requires Clearance briefing charts, contracting officers may use the AFFARS template, AFICC template, or a locally developed template. Competitive RFP amendments should be reviewed and approved by the CAA prior to issuance (not applicable to administrative changes).</p>
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Noncompetitive</b>
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b "> </b>
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Contract</b>
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b "> </b>
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Actions</b>
				</p>
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">Unless otherwise exempted, a Preliminary-Price Negotiation Memorandum (P-PNM) is typically used to explain the rationale applied to arrive at the Government objective by cost element.  For purposes of the clearance process, Architect-Engineering Services should be handled as noncompetitive acquisitions.  Business clearance approval is required prior to beginning negotiations with the contractor.</p>
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Competitive</b>
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b "> </b>
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Contract</b>
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b "> </b>
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Actions</b>
				</p>
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">For competitive Contract Clearance the CAA may be invited to the SSA briefing.</p>
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Clearance Exclusions</b>
				</p>
				<p id="p__AFICC_PGI_5301.9001"
 					outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">Unless otherwise prohibited, when excluding task or delivery orders from business or contract clearance, Contracting officers typically document their clearance exclusion decision, the record of which should be included in the contract file for every order.  Contracting officers may utilize the Fair Opportunity Order Clearance Exclusion MFR template (not yet uploaded to <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/affars_pgi_related_documents/Forms/AllItems.aspx"
    						scope="external"
    						format="aspx"
    						class="- topic/xref ">
						<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">PGI Library</u>
					</xref>) to exclude an order from business or contract clearance.</p>
			</conbody>
		</concept>
	</dita>