<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "/home/ec2-user/ditatool/dita-ot-2.5.4/plugins/org.oasis-open.dita.v1_3/dtd/technicalContent/dtd/ditabase.dtd">
<dita xtrc="NoAutoListNumber">
   <concept id="AFFARS_AFMC_PGI_5307_104_92">
      <title>
         <ph outputclass="topicnum" props="autonumber">AFMC PGI 5307.104-92</ph> Acquisition Strategy Panels (ASP) and Acquisition Plan (AP) Approval Authority or Streamlined Acquisition Strategy Summary (SASS) Approval Authority</title>
      <conbody>
         <ol>
            <li outputclass="List 1">
               <p outputclass="List 1">(a)(3)</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Normal (Web)">(i) AFMC/CA is the ASP Chair for AFPEO/CM programs ≥ $100M to &lt; $1B, unless further <xref format="aspx"
                  href="https://usaf.dps.mil/teams/PK-Central/AFCC/contracting_services_reports/AFMC%20Services%20Management%20Agreement%20and%20Delegations/Forms/AllItems.aspx"
                  scope="external">
               <u>delegated</u>
            </xref> by AFMC/CA. To schedule an ASP for programs where AFMC/CA is the approval authority, send an e-mail notification to AFMC/PK Workflow with the following information: name of program, program office POC, date of ESIS, status of RAD, projected RFP release date and contract award date.</p>
         <ol>
            <li>
               <p>(b)(1)</p>
               <ol>
                  <li>
                     <p>(i) AFMC/CA is the AP approval authority for AFPEO/CM programs ≥ $100M to &lt; $1B, unless further <xref format="html"
                              href="https://usaf.dps.mil/teams/PK-Central/AFCC/contracting_services_reports/AFMC%20Services%20Management%20Agreement%20and%20Delegations/Forms/AllItems.aspx"
                              scope="external">delegated</xref> by AFMC/CA.</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p/>
               <p/>
               <p/>
               <p/>
            </li>
            <li outputclass="List 1">
               <p outputclass="List 1">(b)(2) The following actions do not require an AP or SASS:</p>
            </li>
            <li outputclass="List 1">
               <p outputclass="List 1">(f)The Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program, including the Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) program (e.g., DoD-wide program planning/solicitation)</p>
            </li>
            <li outputclass="List 1">
               <p outputclass="List 1">(g)Acquisitions in accordance with FAR Subpart 13.5. Simplified Procedures for Certain Commercial Items.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Normal">For Air Force Research Laboratory:</p>
         <ol>
            <li>
               <p>(a)(5) In order to provide a consistent approach within AFRL, the following procedures for the use of combined ASP/APs are encouraged:</p>
               <p/>
               <ol>
                  <li>
                     <p>(i) While the ASP/AP will describe the development program (see DFARS 207.103(d)(i) and FAR 32.7), the approval authority should be based upon the total value of contracts to be issued except under Open BAAs, wherein approval authority is based on the highest dollar value for which contracts can be awarded.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>(ii) For R&amp;D actions above the thresholds in DFARS 207.103(d)(i) see the AFRL <xref format="html"
                              href="https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af/USAF/AFP40/d/s6925EC13538A0FB5E044080020E329A9/Files/PKunique/PKPolicyVault/ASPTemplate%20FinalR1.pptx"
                              scope="external">ASP/AP Template</xref>.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>(iii) Broad Agency Announcements (BAAs) with calls. This approach allows for publication of a basic BAA solicitation that contains overarching information, but does not request white papers or full proposals. The requests for white papers and/or proposals are transmitted via Calls. The ASP/AP briefing presented to the approval authority should be based upon the total estimated value of awards to be made under the BAA with Calls. The ASP/AP briefing should specifically address any follow-on strategy planning requirements applicable before issuing individual calls and the approval authority for the call strategy. Contracting should coordinate on the proposed approach to follow-on strategy requirements.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>(iv) Open BAAs. This approach allows offerors to submit proposals any time during the open period. Because it specifically requests proposal submittal, it should be considered a solicitation. An ASP/AP should be accomplished before the open BAA is issued. The approval authority for the ASP/AP should be based on the highest dollar value for which contracts can be awarded.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>(v) Revisions to ASP/APs. In order to ensure consistency, a significant change affecting the acquisition is one that meets any of the following criteria:</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p/>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>(A) The need to issue a new contract that was not anticipated in the approved ASP/AP for a development program or the need to process a Justification and Approval for a modification to a contract.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p/>
               <p/>
               <p/>
               <p/>
               <p/>
               <p/>
               <p/>
               <ol>
                  <li outputclass="List 2">
                     <p outputclass="List 2"/>
                     <p/>
(1) Change in contract type for an anticipated contract. 
<p/>
                     <p/>
                     <p/>
                     <p/>
                  </li>
                  <li outputclass="List 2">
                     <p outputclass="List 2">(2)The cumulative value of the anticipated basic contract(s) and all modifications is/are expected to exceed the approval threshold of the previous ASP/AP approval authority.</p>
                  </li>
                  <li>
                     <p>(3)The cumulative value of all modifications is greater than or equal to 100 percent of the value of the anticipated basic contract(s).</p>
                  </li>
               </ol>
               <p/>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>(B) AFRLI 61-201 procedures to approve and disapprove work unit baseline changes do not change or modify any contracting procedures related to the need for an updated ASP/AP as described above.</p>
            </li>
            <li outputclass="List 1">
               <p outputclass="List 1">(b)(1) Research and Development (R&amp;D)/Enterprise Contracting ASPs, APs, and SASS:</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <table colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <tgroup cols="2">
               <colspec colname="1" colnum="1" colwidth="43*"/>
               <colspec colname="2" colnum="2" colwidth="57*"/>
               <tbody>
                  <row>
                     <entry nameend="2" namest="1">
                        <p>
                           <b>R&amp;D</b>
                           <b>1</b>
                        </p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry nameend="2" namest="1">
                        <p>(Not included in the definition of services in 10 U.S.C. 2330 and AFI 63-138, paragraph 1.2.1.4.)Research and Development (R&amp;D)</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>
                           <u>&gt;</u> $100M</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>AFRL/CC2</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>≥ $50M &lt; $100M</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>AFRL Tech Dir3</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>&gt;SAT &lt; $50M</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>AFRL Technical Division Chief4</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
         </table>
         <p outputclass="Normal (Web)">
            <b>1</b> All delegated Approval Authorities must be within the Requirements chain</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal (Web)">
            <b>2</b> Delegated to CA. Further delegable to lo lower than GO/SES</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal (Web)">
            <b>3</b> Delegable no lower than O-6/GS-15 or equivalent</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal (Web)">
            <b>4</b> Delegable no lower than O-5/GS-14 or equivalent</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">Contracted Services ASPs, APs, and SASS subject to AFI 63-138:</p>
         <table colsep="1" rowsep="1">
            <tgroup cols="2">
               <colspec colname="1" colnum="1" colwidth="7*"/>
               <colspec colname="2" colnum="2" colwidth="93*"/>
               <tbody>
                  <row>
                     <entry nameend="2" namest="1">
                        <p>
                           <b>Approval Authority for Contracted Services ASPs and APs/SASS</b>
                           <b>1</b>
                        </p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry nameend="2" namest="1">
                        <p>(Included in the definition of services in 10 U.S.C. 2330 and AFI 63-138)</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Acquisitions ≥$500M &lt;$1B</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>AFMC/CA2</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Acquisitions ≥$100M &lt;$500M</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>AFRL/CA2</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Acquisitions ≥ $10M &lt; $100M</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>AFRL Tech Dir3</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <p>Acquisitions &gt; SAT &lt; $10M</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <p>AFRL Technical Division Chief4</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
         </table>
         <p outputclass="Normal">
            <b>1</b> All delegated Approval Authorities must be within the Technical Executive Officer (TEO) or requirements chain for non-TEO efforts</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">
            <b>2</b> Delegable to GO/SES</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal">
            <b>3</b> Delegable no lower than O-6/GS-15 or equivalent</p>
         <p id="p__AFMC_PGI_5307.105" outputclass="Normal">
            <b>4</b> Delegable no lower than O-5/GS-14 or equivalent</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
