<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="AFFARS_AFMC_PGI_5301_601_91"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph "> AFMC PGI 5301.601-91 </ph> Air Force Contracting
      Compliance Inspection Program</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Reference MP5301.601-91, Air Force Contracting
        Compliance Inspection Program </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">AFMC Contracting
          Self-Inspection Process - Introduction</u>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">This PGI establishes the AFMC standardized process
        for Contracting Unit Self-Inspections of awarded actions using the <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/templates/self_inspection_checklist.xlsx"
                  scope="external"
                  format="xlsx"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Air Force Contracting Self-Inspection Checklist</u>
            </xref>. Each Center and Operating Location (OL) contracting unit (referred to in this
        document as the “Contracting Office”) should conduct unit self-inspections to ensure
        contracting actions reflect good business judgment, compliance with existing statutes,
        regulations, and policies (including AFI 90-201, The Air Force Inspection System’s purpose
        to identify, and report issues); and enable proactive trend and issue identification to
        improve acquisitions in the long term. The process addresses self-inspection from the
        identification of awarded actions below prescribed clearance review thresholds chosen for
        review, through review, trend/Area(s) of Concern (AOC) analysis, Corrective Action Plan
        (CAP) development, and data entry/final resolution. The Self-Inspection Program Monitor
        (SIPM) briefs Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT) status to the SCO and actions are
        considered complete when Contracting Office SCO has been briefed on closure of any
        corrective action, and closure in the system.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Applicable
          Publications, Regulations, </u>
            <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">and</u>
            <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u "> Checklists</u>
         </p>
         <ul class="- topic/ul ">
            <li outputclass="List Bullet" class="- topic/li ">AFI 90-201</li>
            <li outputclass="List Bullet" class="- topic/li ">AFI 90-201 AFMCSUP</li>
            <li outputclass="List Bullet" class="- topic/li ">AFFARS 5301.601-91</li>
            <li outputclass="List Bullet" class="- topic/li ">AFFARS MP5301.601-91</li>
            <li outputclass="List Bullet" class="- topic/li ">Air Force Contracting Self-Inspection
          Checklist</li>
            <li outputclass="List Bullet" class="- topic/li ">AFMCI 64-116 </li>
         </ul>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Roles and
          Responsibilities </u>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Self-Inspection Program Monitor (SIPM): Responsible
        for administration of the Contracting Office’s overall Self-Inspection Program, which
        includes both the assessment of individual contract files and the assessment of contracting
        management programs. The SIPM (or alternate) is also responsible for entry, review, and
        monitoring of MICT.<line-through class="+ topic/ph hi-d/line-through "> </line-through>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Self-Inspection Program Point of Contact (SIP POC):
        The SIP POC is the liaison between the reviewed buying office, reviewers, the SIPM and the
        SCCO/SCO. Responsibilities include oversight of the review process within a respective
        buying office and collection of all inspection review sheets. The SIP POC flags all
        Critical, Significant, and Minor deficiencies as well as identifies any trends resulting
        from the unit inspection. The SIP POC is also responsible for working with the cognizant
        office(s) to create CAPs, where/when applicable, and monitoring CAPs through closure. Upon
        closure, the SIP POC should notify the SIPM of CAP completion. </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Unit Self-Inspection Program Reviewer (USIP–R): For
        reviews done by other than a formally assigned Reviewer, such review(s) should be done by a
        PCO (and may be supported by a buyer). (The intent/role of the buyer is to provide a
        mentoring experience for junior contracting personnel to facilitate both thorough
        inspections and a culture of learning and professional growth.) PCOs may only review files
        within the scope/limit of their individual warrant. The USIP-R (or designee) is responsible
        for reviewing the contract file IAW <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/templates/self_inspection_checklist.xlsx"
                  scope="external"
                  format="xlsx"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Air Force Contracting Self-Inspection Checklist</u>
            </xref>. The USIP-R is responsible for verifying discrepancies are corrected/fixed prior to
        submitting the completed inspection review sheets to the SIP POC. Should an office not have
        an assigned reviewer, the individual serving as the USIP-R should coordinate efforts with
        their assigned SIP POC and/or SIPM. </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Contracting
          Management Program IAW the AF Contracting Self-Assessment Communicator</u>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Contracting Offices should inspect contracting
        management programs IAW <xref href="http://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_ig/publication/afi90-201/afi90-201.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">AFI 90-201</u>
            </xref> and AFFARS MP 5301.601-91. SCOs should be regularly briefed on organization MICT
        status.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Contracting Office(s) may, as MICT date
        milestones/criteria are fulfilled/changed, enter/update as practicable. Upon closure of a
        MICT record for a trend/item self-inspection, the individual(s) designated to complete work
        on a given CAP should notify the SIPM and request closeout in the MICT system. </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Unit Awarded
          Action Self-Inspections</u>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">The self-inspection of individual contract files
        flows through a three phase process: first, Identification/Selection and Review of Awarded
        Actions; second, Analysis/Trend Identification and Corrective Action Plans; and third,
        Contracting Office tracking through resolution. Unit contracting self-inspection is
        considered complete when the SIPM (or delegate) briefs the Contracting Office SCO on
        successful review of actions, and the closure of any corrective action based on finding from
        the review(s). The data/findings from informal lower organization reviews of awarded actions
        may be included in the overall Contracting Office self-inspection. </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e)(1) <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Phase One -
          Identification/Selection and Review of Awarded Actions: </u>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Unit PZCs (or their delegate if no PZC is resident
        at a given location) should identify and review contract actions including contracts,
        modifications, and orders issued since the last data pull, below the clearance review
        thresholds identified in the AFMC PGI. </p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">The table below provides the minimum annual self-inspection
        quantities/percentages against awards with dollar values below those of clearance review
        thresholds. The two (2) percent standard is based on total awards of the year (not just
        total action count below review thresholds). The annual data pool/count is based on twelve
        months’ worth of data since the end of the previous year’s inspection. Self-inspections
        should be accomplished on a continual basis and ensure compliance, as a minimum, with the
        most current <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/templates/self_inspection_checklist.xlsx"
                  scope="external"
                  format="xlsx"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Air Force Contracting Self-Inspection Checklist</u>
            </xref>
            <ph class="- topic/ph ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u "> </u>
            </ph>identified in AFFARS MP5301.601-91, para 2.</p>
         <table id="tbl_afmcpgi_5301_601_91_1" class="- topic/table ">
            <tgroup cols="2" class="- topic/tgroup ">
               <colspec colname="c1"
                        colwidth="1*"
                        rowheader="headers"
                        class="- topic/colspec "/>
               <colspec colname="c2"
                        colwidth="1*"
                        rowheader="headers"
                        class="- topic/colspec "/>
               <thead class="- topic/thead ">
                  <row class="- topic/row ">
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">
                           <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Number of Actions</b>
                        </p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">
                           <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Number/Percent of awards annually reviewed for
                    Self-Inspection</b>
                        </p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
               </thead>
               <tbody class="- topic/tbody ">
                  <row class="- topic/row ">
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">1-100</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Five actions (or all, if less than five
                  total awards)</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row class="- topic/row ">
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">101 - 500</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Five (5) actions, or no less than two (2)
                  percent minimum - whichever is greater</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row class="- topic/row ">
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Over 500</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">No less than two (2) percent</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
         </table>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p "> In addition to the actions inspected to meet the
        requirements of this process, contracting self-inspections may include additional actions
        above the review threshold as a secondary quality check (and final verification that final
        contract clearance issues were adequately addressed). All reviews in the self-inspection
        should be conducted on a representative sampling of actions (e.g., purchase orders,
        contracts, supplemental agreements, undefinitized contract actions, funding modifications,
        orders, option exercises, assistance instruments, etc.). Additionally, specific actions may
        be selected (outside of random sample) due to the high visibility, or uniqueness of a given
        acquisition. </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">While buying organizations should also conduct
        reviews for their own internal quality control/proactive improvement, those reviews are
        separate from the self-inspection addressed by this process. However, organizations are
        encouraged to provide such results to the Contracting Office for sharing of lessons
        learned/trend analysis/correct. PZC may allow for buying office augmentation of reviews.
        Augmentation may also be used for those organizations who do not have a resident PZC, and
        virtual inspection is not practicable. </p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p "> Larger samples may be pulled as necessary by
        utilizing a percentage greater than the 2% minimum (e.g., to ensure sufficient quantities
        have been reviewed, to verify past corrective actions, or to support training decisions).
        Samples may also include actions valued above the clearance review threshold for which no
        review was conducted (e.g., funding modifications or option exercise). </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e)(2) <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Phase Two:
          Analysis/Trend Identification, Areas of Concern and Corrective Action Plans </u>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Upon completion of the <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/templates/self_inspection_checklist.xlsx"
                  scope="external"
                  format="xlsx"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Air Force Contracting Self-Inspection Checklist</u>
            </xref>, the data should be consolidated and the SIP POC should analyze and identify any
        trends (using the table below for trend analysis) or actions requiring further effort as
        CAPs or Area(s) of Concern (AOC)–reporting to Contracting Office SCO (or COCO as appropriate
        or two-letter local Contracting lead for those locations who do not have a SCO physically
        located – this distinction applies to SCO references through remainder of this document) for
        approval. PZC should brief or facilitate briefing to report trends and/or results of the
        self-assessment. The SIPM should generate or facilitate creation of CAPs with input and
        buy-in from affected buying offices.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">CAPs should be developed and should be tracked to
        closure by the applicable PZC office with support from the office(s) in which the
        observations occurred. Systemic trends are distinguished by the reportable Contracting
        Office. </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">The following table identifies the frequency for
        which finding a specific checklist item may be used to identify a trend for that item.
        Immediate offices/locations have the discretion to initiate a CAP/below threshold, given
        severity or direction by higher authority at said site to proactively address for future
        efforts. The table provides a consistent aid for consideration of a trend for final
        determination/approval of trend by SCO. </p>
         <table id="tbl_afmcpgi_5301_601_91_2" class="- topic/table ">
            <tgroup cols="2" class="- topic/tgroup ">
               <colspec colname="c1"
                        colwidth="1*"
                        rowheader="headers"
                        class="- topic/colspec "/>
               <colspec colname="c2"
                        colwidth="4*"
                        rowheader="headers"
                        class="- topic/colspec "/>
               <thead class="- topic/thead ">
                  <row class="- topic/row ">
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">
                           <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Data Pull Sample Size</b>
                        </p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">
                           <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Volume/percent within a given award assessment pull
                    to consider as a trend for analysis for SCO)</b>
                        </p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
               </thead>
               <tbody class="- topic/tbody ">
                  <row class="- topic/row ">
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">1-10 </p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Three (3) or more findings of a given
                  checklist item or twenty (20) to thirty (30) percent (or more) of actions with
                  given checklist item (whichever is greater)</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row class="- topic/row ">
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">11-25</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Four (4) or more findings of a given
                  checklist item or twenty (20) to thirty (30) (or more) of actions with given
                  checklist item <line-through class="+ topic/ph hi-d/line-through "> </line-through>(whichever is greater)</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row class="- topic/row ">
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">26-50</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Ten (10) or more findings of a given
                  checklist item or twenty (20) to thirty (30) percent (or more) of actions with
                  given checklist (whichever is greater)</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row class="- topic/row ">
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">51-75</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Eighteen (18) or more findings of a given
                  checklist item or twenty (20) to thirty (30) percent (or more) of actions with
                  given checklist item (whichever is greater)</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row class="- topic/row ">
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">76-100</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Twenty-four (24) or more findings of a
                  given checklist item or twenty (20) to thirty (30) percent (or more) of actions
                  with given checklist item<line-through class="+ topic/ph hi-d/line-through "> </line-through>(whichever is greater)</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row class="- topic/row ">
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">101-200</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Thirty-six (36) or more findings of a
                  given checklist item or twenty (20) to thirty (30) percent (or more) of actions
                  with given checklist item (whichever is greater)</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row class="- topic/row ">
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">&gt;201</p>
                     </entry>
                     <entry class="- topic/entry ">
                        <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Fifty (50) or more findings of a given
                  checklist item or twenty (20) to thirty (30) percent (or more) of actions with
                  given checklist item (whichever is greater)</p>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
         </table>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">The SIPM coordinates proposed AOCs, CAPs and trends
        with the SCO for approval. A summary identifying all CAPs and trends are finalized and the
        SCO should implement and monitor corrective measures, including CAPs, if applicable.
        Assigned individuals working a specific CAP should report monthly on CAP status to the SIPM.
        The SIPM should continue to monitor any open CAPS through to completion, providing quarterly
        updates to the SCO. The SIPM should ensure inspections are completed using the applicable
        Contracting Self-Assessment Communicator or <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/templates/self_inspection_checklist.xlsx"
                  scope="external"
                  format="xlsx"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Air Force Contracting Self-Inspection Checklist</u>
            </xref>. </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e)(3) <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Phase Three:
          Local Tracking Through Resolution: </u>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Each Checklist inspection result is consolidated by
        each reportable Contracting Office and should include reportable identified Critical,
        Significant, and Minor trends (as established by the criteria in this process). </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">Unit self-inspection for a record is considered
        complete upon final corrective resolution out-briefed to the cognizant SCO.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Deficiency
          Severities</u>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Deficiency severity definitions are found in <xref href="http://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_ig/publication/afi90-201/afi90-201.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">AFI 90-201, Attachment 1</u>
            </xref>. There are three deficiency severities: critical, significant, and minor.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p "> (g) <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Areas </u>
            <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">of</u>
            <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u "> Concern (AOC)</u>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">AOC merit additional attention by management, but
        are not of the severity that they merit a CAP. Contracting Offices can designate an item as
        an AOC for local focus (e.g., based on observations from recent inspection, based on new
        regulations being issued for that area, based on a new checklist question being added,
        reading other IG reports for insight, etc.). Contracting Office AOCs should be managed and
        closed at the level they were initiated. Creation of each AOC item should include the exit
        criteria for action closure. </p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
