<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      xtrc="NoAutoListNumber"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="AFFARS_AFMC_PGI_5345_103_90"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph outputclass="topicnum" class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">AFMC PGI 5345.103-90
         </ph> General</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  For the purpose of this PGI, “Base Support” includes property that is incidental to the place of performance; such as when the contract requires contractor personnel to be located on a Government site or installation where the use of Government-provided office space and equipment, e.g., chairs, telephones, and computers, is standard practice. [See FAR <ph outputclass="FAR" class="- topic/ph ">45.000</ph>(b)(5)]</p>
            </li>
            <li outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">(b)  Base support is provided to contractors to preclude duplication of material and support services that would increase costs.  Base support includes Government-controlled working space, material, equipment, services (including automatic data processing), or other support (excluding use of the Defense Switched Network- (DSN)). </p>
            </li>
            <li outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">(c)  When base support will be provided, contracting officers are encouraged to include in the contract file documentation, the agreements covering the support to be provided at specified locations.  Try to be specific and clear as to kind, type, quality, level, frequency and quantity of material, equipment, transportation, facilities, and services to be required by the contract, and list the launch program(s) being supported.  Try to include detailed language describing the base support to be provided in the statement of work (SOW)/performance work statement (PWS).  </p>
            </li>
            <li outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">(d)  Proper coordination of base support needs is important to ensure the Government can fulfill its contractual obligations.  The contracting officer and project officer should assure that, prior to negotiations, all conditions can be met.   </p>
            </li>
            <li outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">(e)  Refer to <xref href="http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/ins1.html"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html"
                        class="- topic/xref ">
                     <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DoDI 4000.19</u>
                  </xref> and <xref href="http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html"
                        class="- topic/xref ">
                     <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">AFPD 25-2</u>
                  </xref> for additional information.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p ">(f)  The following suggested SOW/PWS language may be included substantially as written below when considered necessary for contract performance of work on site at Air Force installations: </p>
            </li>
            <li outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">(g)  If the contract is a cost reimbursement, time and materials, or labor hour contract, use the basic suggested SOW/PWS language plus this paragraph:<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> </i>
                  <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> </i>
               </p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">In the performance of this contract or any major subcontract, no direct or indirect costs for support will be incurred if the Government determines that support is available at, or through any Air Force installation where this contract shall be performed.</i>
         </p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">(h)  If it is not possible to list base support in the contract before award, utilize the basic suggested contract language and substitute the following paragraph for paragraph (3) of the basic suggested SOW/PWS language: </p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Written authorization must be requested from the </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">c</i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">ontracting </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">o</i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">fficer for support not later than 90 days before the required in-place dates at each Air Force installation, and immediately for any required changes.  </i>
         </p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">(i)  Ensure the facilities are available and concurrence for their use has been obtained from the cognizant contracting officer before finalizing contract negotiations and/or source selection.  In competitive acquisitions (not applicable to Broad Agency Announcements), the request for proposal /request for quote should request the contractor propose a cost in the event that the facilities are not available.   This is necessary in order to make a valid comparison of all contractors’ proposals.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
