<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="AFFARS_AFMC_PGI_5301_9001_92"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">AFMC PGI 5301.9001-92</ph> Clearance Request</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) Clearance Request. CAAs may use the Air Force <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/11191/KTFSApp/app/index.aspx"
                  scope="external"
                  format="aspx"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Request for Clearance</u>
            </xref> template, or any local template, to request both business and contract clearance review and approval, except when required to follow AFFARS 5301.9001(f)(1)(i) when the CAA is the DAS(C)/ADAS(C). When both business and contract clearance are required, submit a new request each time.  Clearly identify any significant issues or unresolved comments on the “Request for Clearance.” </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) Clearance Request -- Legal Review. </p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) Legal review should be accomplished prior to submitting actions for clearance review and approval.  Simultaneous legal and clearance review may be requested only in exceptional cases and when agreed to by the program attorney and the Chief of the clearance review staff.  Files submitted for clearance approval should clearly evidence local legal review and comment resolution with the program attorney.  If there are unresolved legal comments they should be clearly identified in the file and highlighted in the clearance request and any clearance briefing.  </p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) If any significant changes occur after legal review, or the CAA requires the contracting officer to make significant changes to the contract, then legal should review the file again. </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) Clearance Request -- Clearance Approval. If the CAA is satisfied that the contract action/file meets the clearance objectives of AFFARS 5301.9001, the CAA signs and dates the “Request for Clearance” form.  Any conditions that the CAA places on clearance approval should be specified on the “Request for Clearance.” </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) Clearance Request -- Resubmission for Clearance Approval. </p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) Changes in acquisition strategy and/or terms and conditions may require the contract action to be resubmitted for clearance approval, for example:</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p " xtrf="CheckMapping">(i) Exceeding approved negotiation parameters such as the cost line, contract type, profit/fee rate and (if applicable) the ceiling rate and/or incentive share ratios.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p " xtrf="CheckMapping">(ii) Changing contract type</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p " xtrf="CheckMapping">(iii) Changing contract share ratio</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p " xtrf="CheckMapping">(iv) Major change in quantity</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p " xtrf="CheckMapping">(v) Major change in requirements</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p " xtrf="CheckMapping">(vi) Change to a significant term or condition</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p " xtrf="CheckMapping">(vii) Addition or deletion of a significant term or condition </p>
         <p id="p__AFMC_PGI_5301.9001-93"
            outputclass="List3"
            class="- topic/p "
            xtrf="CheckMapping">(viii) Solicitation amendments (non-administrative)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
