<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
            id="AFFARS_pgi_5315_topic_30"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph "> AFMC PGI 5315.406-3-90 </ph> Use of Abstract of Offers as Documentation of Price Reasonableness</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			      <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">If adequate price competition exists as defined in FAR 15.403-1(c)(1)(i); the contract type is FFP; and price/price and technical acceptability/price, technical acceptability and the acceptability of past performance<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">
					          <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> </i>
				        </b>are the only factors being evaluated other than the RFP terms and conditions, and tradeoffs are not permitted between price and non-price factors (i.e., when an LPTA approach is used), an <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/abstract-offers-0"
                  scope="external"
                  format="html"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">SF1409</u>
				        </xref>
				        <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">
						            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
							              <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">/ </u>
						            </i>
					          </b>
				        </ph>
				        <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/abstract-offers-continuation"
                  scope="external"
                  format="html"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">1410</u>
				        </xref>, Abstract of Offers and Continuation sheet may be used as the pricing evaluation documentation. The SF1409/1410 should be marked to include the following information:</p>
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) The accepted price should be prominently displayed, for example circled in colored ink, to facilitate quick identification/flagging of the information. If the quantity accepted is different from that called for on the solicitation, the accepted quantity (variance) should also be flagged. </p>
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) If a low offer is rejected and one at a higher price is accepted, identify the reason for the rejected offer(s); however, refrain from annotating any information concerning contractor responsibility, or other sensitive information not releasable to the public, on the SF1409/1410. (This information should be documented separately in the file).</p>
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) The following award information should be included at the bottom of the listing of offerors and prices: (i) Contract number; (ii) List of CLINs awarded; (iii) Total amount of award; and (iv) Statement that price(s) are considered fair and reasonable based on adequate price competition.</p>
			      <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">EXAMPLE: CONTRACT NR: F09603-00-C-9876</p>
			      <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">CLINS AWARDED: 0001 – 0003 </p>
			      <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT: $4,098,123</p>
			      <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Price is considered fair and reasonable based on adequate price competition.</p>
			      <p id="p__AFMC_PGI_5315.407-1-90"
            outputclass="List1"
            class="- topic/p ">(d) The contracting officer signs the SF1409/1410.</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
