<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <concept id="AFFARS_pgi_5345_topic_7"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title outputclass="Heading 3" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">AFMC PGI 5345.103-90</ph> General</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) For the purpose of this PGI, “Base Support”
        includes property that is incidental to the place of performance; such as when the contract
        requires contractor personnel to be located on a Government site or installation where the
        use of Government-provided office space and equipment, e.g., chairs, telephones, and
        computers, is standard practice. [See FAR 45.000(b)(5)]</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) Base support is provided to contractors to
        preclude duplication of material and support services that would increase costs.  Base
        support includes Government-controlled working space, material, equipment, services
        (including automatic data processing), or other support (excluding use of the Defense
        Switched Network- (DSN)). </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) When base support will be provided, contracting
        officers are encouraged to include in the contract file documentation, the agreements
        covering the support to be provided at specified locations.  Try to be specific and clear as
        to kind, type, quality, level, frequency and quantity of material, equipment,
        transportation, facilities, and services to be required by the contract, and list the launch
        program(s) being supported.  Try to include detailed language describing the base support to
        be provided in the statement of work (SOW)/performance work statement (PWS).  </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) Proper coordination of base support needs is
        important to ensure the Government can fulfill its contractual obligations.  The contracting
        officer and project officer should assure that, prior to negotiations, all conditions can be
        met. </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) Refer to <xref href="http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/ins1.html"
                  scope="external"
                  format="html"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DoDI 4000.19</u>
            </xref> and <xref href="http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/"
                  scope="external"
                  format="html"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">AFPD 25-2</u>
            </xref> for additional information.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) The following suggested SOW/PWS language may be
        included substantially as written below when considered necessary for contract performance
        of work on site at Air Force installations: </p>
         <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(1) Base support may be provided by the Government to the
          Contractor in accordance with this SOW/PWS. </i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List7" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(i) The Contractor will require use of base support on a
          rent-free, non-interference basis to include Government-controlled working space,
          material, equipment, services (including automatic data processing), or other support
          (excluding use of the DSN) which the Government determines can be made available at, or
          through, any Air Force installation where this contract shall be performed. </i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List7" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(ii) Unless otherwise stipulated in the contract schedule, the
          Contractor will use base support on a no-charge-for-use basis and the value shall be a
          part of the Government's contract consideration. </i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(2) The Contractor should immediately report (with a copy to
          the cognizant contract administration office) inadequacies, defective base support, or
          non-availability of support stipulated by the contract schedule, together with a
          recommended plan for obtaining the required support. Facilities are not be purchased under
          this contract by the Contractor. Additionally, the Contractor (or authorized
          representative) will not purchase, or otherwise furnish any base support requirement
          provided by the SOW/PWS (or authorize others to do so), without prior written approval of
          the Contracting Officer regarding the price, terms, and conditions of the proposed
          purchase, or approval of other arrangements. </i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(3) Following are installations where base support will be
          provided: (insert list of installations). </i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List6" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(4) The base support to be furnished under this contract is
          (insert list of support items). Because of the nature and location(s) of the work
          performed, the value of such support is undeterminable. The Contractor is not authorized
          to incur any costs resulting from nonsupport prior to Contracting Officer direction</i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">.</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(g) If the contract is a cost reimbursement, time
        and materials, or labor hour contract, use the basic suggested SOW/PWS language plus this
          paragraph:<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> </i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">In the performance of this contract or any major subcontract,
          no direct or indirect costs for support will be incurred if the Government determines that
          support is available at, or through any Air Force installation where this contract shall
          be performed.</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(h) If it is not possible to list base support in
        the contract before award, utilize the basic suggested contract language and substitute the
        following paragraph for paragraph (3) of the basic suggested SOW/PWS language: </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Written authorization must be requested from the contracting
          officer for support not later than 90 days before the required in-place dates at each Air
          Force installation, and immediately for any required changes.</i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> </i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p " xtrf="CheckMapping">(i) Ensure the facilities are available and
        concurrence for their use has been obtained from the cognizant contracting officer before
        finalizing contract negotiations and/or source selection.  In competitive acquisitions (not
        applicable to Broad Agency Announcements), the request for proposal /request for quote
        should request the contractor propose a cost in the event that the facilities are not
        available.  This is necessary in order to make a valid comparison of all contractors’
        proposals.</p>
      </conbody>
  </concept>
</dita>
