<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN"
        	"ditabase.dtd">
	<dita xtrc="NoAutoListNumber"  >
		<concept id="AFFARS_AFMC_PGI_5315_406_3_90"
       			xml:lang="en-US"
       			class="- topic/topic concept/concept " >
			<title class="- topic/title ">
				<ph outputclass="topicnum"
  					class="- topic/ph "
  					props="autonumber">AFMC PGI 5315.406-3</ph> -90   Use of Abstract of Offers as Documentation of Price Reasonableness</title>
			<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">If adequate price competition exists as defined in FAR <ph outputclass="FAR"
  						class="- topic/ph ">15.403-1</ph>(c)(1)(i); the contract type is FFP; and price/price and technical acceptability/price, technical acceptability and the acceptability of past performance<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">
						<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> </i>
					</b>are the only factors being evaluated other than the RFP terms and conditions, and tradeoffs are not permitted between price and non-price factors (i.e., when an LPTA approach is used), an <xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/abstract-offers-0"
    						scope="external"
    						format="html"
    						class="- topic/xref ">
						<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">SF1409</u>
					</xref>
					<ph class="- topic/ph ">
						<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">
							<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
								<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u "/>
							</i>
						</b>
					</ph>
					<xref href="https://www.gsa.gov/forms-library/abstract-offers-continuation"
    						scope="external"
    						format="html"
    						class="- topic/xref ">
						<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">1410</u>
					</xref>, Abstract of Offers and Continuation sheet may be used as the pricing evaluation documentation.  The SF1409/1410 should be marked to include the following information:</p>
				<ol class="- topic/ol ">
					<li outputclass="List 1"
  						class="- topic/li ">
						<p outputclass="List 1"
 							class="- topic/p ">(a) The accepted price should be prominently displayed, for example circled in colored ink, to facilitate quick identification/flagging of the information.  If the quantity accepted is different from that called for on the solicitation, the accepted quantity (variance) should also be flagged.  </p>
					</li>
					<li outputclass="List 1"
  						class="- topic/li ">
						<p outputclass="List 1"
 							class="- topic/p ">(b) If a low offer is rejected and one at a higher price is accepted, identify the reason for the rejected offer(s); however, refrain from annotating any information concerning contractor responsibility, or other sensitive information not releasable to the public, on the SF1409/1410. (This information should be documented separately in the file).</p>
					</li>
					<li outputclass="List 1"
  						class="- topic/li ">
						<p outputclass="List 1"
 							class="- topic/p ">(c) The following award information should be included at the bottom of the listing of offerors and prices:  (i) Contract number; (ii) List of CLINs awarded; (iii) Total amount of award; and (iv) Statement that price(s) are considered fair and reasonable based on adequate price competition.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">EXAMPLE:  CONTRACT NR:  F09603-00-C-9876</p>
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">CLINS AWARDED:  0001 – 0003 </p>
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT:  $4,098,123</p>
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">Price is considered fair and reasonable based on adequate price competition.</p>
				<ol class="- topic/ol ">
					<li id="li__AFMC_PGI_5315.407-1-90"
  						outputclass="List 1"
  						class="- topic/li ">
						<p outputclass="List 1"
 							class="- topic/p ">(d) The contracting officer signs the SF1409/1410.</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</conbody>
		</concept>
	</dita>