<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="AFFARS_MP5301_602_2_1"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph "> 1.0 </ph> Contracting Officer Roles and
      Responsibilities</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">1.1 As part of the acquisition planning process, the
        CO must determine the nature of the work/requirement (Type A, B, or C) as specified in <xref href="http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/500072p.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DoDI 5000.72</u>
            </xref>, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">DoD Standard for Contracting Officer’s Representative
          (COR) Certification</i>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1.2 If the requiring activity has not yet initiated
        a COR nomination, the CO must initiate the <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/KnowledgeCenter/contracting_templates/request_for_COR_support.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Request for COR Support</u>
            </xref> to notify the requiring activity of the need for COR(s) support and to prompt
        requiring activity nomination of a qualified COR via the Joint Appointment Module (JAM)
        (formerly CORT Tool) in Procurement Integrated Enterprise Environment (PIEE). 1.2.1 The
        Request for COR Support memorandum initiated by the CO should be routed through requiring
        activity (e.g., COR Supervisor, Functional Commander/Director (FC/FD)). See Enclosure 5 of
          <xref href="http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/500072p.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DoDI 5000.72</u>
            </xref>, Qualification Requirements for CORs and Enclosure 6 of <xref href="http://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/500072p.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DoDI 5000.72</u>
            </xref>
            <ph class="- topic/ph ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">, </u>
            </ph>Examples of COR Responsibilities and COR Certification Requirements. The COR must file
        the CO’s Request for COR Support memorandum (if used) in the “COR Online File.” </p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1.2.2 The CO must provide contract specific training
        (see paragraph 1.3.7). COR management is responsible for ensuring that any COR performing
        under a waiver pursuant to sections 1701-1764 of Title 10, United States Code completes all
        required training. New entrant and required DoD Component provided ethics and combating
        trafficking in persons (CTIP) training may not be waived.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1.2.3 The CO shall perform, with participation of
        the COR and COR supervisor, a yearly administrative review of the COR's online file during
        the anniversary month of appointment, or more often, at the discretion of the CO.  The CO
        shall upload the COR File Annual Checklist to the Surveillance and Performance Monitoring
        (SPM) (Formerly CORT Tool) in PIEE comprised of the minimum requirements of DFARS PGI
        201.602-2(d)(vi), and contract and COR-related documents necessary for the effective
        discharge of COR duties and responsibilities.  The Checklist (available in SPM) shall guide
        the COR in populating the online COR File, and serve as the basis for the CO to judge
        the accuracy and completeness of the COR file during each review.      </p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1.2.4 Upon completion of each CO review of the
        online COR File, the CO shall document the results on the COR File Annual Checklist, and
        upload each Checklist review to the SPM.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1.2.5 The <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/KnowledgeCenter/contracting_templates/cor_designation.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">COR Designation</u>
            </xref> from the CO must also: </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) Designate the COR (if required) as an Assessing
        Official Representation (AOR) supporting the CPAR process;</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) Stipulate that the COR will be required to have
        access to the Synchronized Pre-Deployment &amp; Operation Tracker (SPOT) (if required due to
        overseas deployment support); and</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) Stipulate whether the COR will require access to
        the Enterprise-wide Contract Manpower Reporting Application (eCMRA).</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1.2.6 Notification of COR designation should be
        provided to the QAPC.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1.2.7. Distribution of the fully executed COR
        designation must be made to the COR, COR Supervisor, Contractor and Property administrator.
        In addition, notification must be sent to the local Judge Advocate General office or Office
        of General Counsel immediately upon the appointment of a COR designated as an OGE Form 450
        filer, and annually by January 1st , a list of all CORs required to file <xref href="https://www.oge.gov/web/OGE.nsf/Confidential%20Financial%20Disclosure"
                  scope="external"
                  format="html"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">OGE Forms 450</u>
            </xref>. </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">1.3 CO, Contract Specialist, or QAPC Led Training.
        The CO must ensure contract-specific training is scheduled and provided to the prospective
        COR, unless waived (see 1.2.2). The training may be conducted by the CO, Contracting
        Specialist, or QAPC, and must consist of the following at a minimum prior to contract
        award:</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1.3.1 Duties/responsibilities to be delegated; </p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1.3.2 Importance of COR performance;</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1.3.3 Personal conflicts of interest and potential
        conflicts of interest;</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1.3.4 Unauthorized commitments;</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1.3.5 Ethics/integrity in relationships with the CO,
        COR management (e.g., COR Supervisor, Services Designated Official (SDO), Functional
        Commander/ Directors (FC/FD)), and the contractor; </p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1.3.6 Discussion of the <xref href="http://sam.dau.mil/"
                  scope="external"
                  format="html"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
                  <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Seven Steps to the Services Acquisition Process</u>
               </i>
            </xref>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1.3.7 Contract-specific training consisting as a
        minimum of the following:</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">1.3.7.1 A discussion of the contract (SOW, PWS,
        Specifications, etc.), and surveillance plan/QASP;</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">1.3.7.2 An awareness of any areas in the contract
        susceptible to fraud, waste, and abuse; </p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">1.3.7.3 Creation, maintenance, and submission of all
        surveillance documentation and contractor performance assessment information required by the
        contract and applicable regulations; </p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">1.3.7.4 How the COR can stay abreast of contract
        modifications;</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">1.3.7.5 How the COR can monitor contract fund
        status; and,</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">1.3.7.6 Joint CO and COR review of the “COR File
        Annual Checklist” to ensure mutual understanding of the level/quality of surveillance and
        documentation must be maintained in the on-line SPM file.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">1.3.8 Refer to the <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/KnowledgeCenter/contracting_templates/suggested_contract-specific_training_syllabus.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Suggested Contract-Specific Training Syllabus</u>
            </xref> template for conducting contract-specific training. The template may be tailored to
        fit your acquisition.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">COR Performance and Appraisal</b>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">1.4 At a minimum, the CO and COR supervisor must
        review the COR’s reports, files, and other documentation for completeness/accomplishment, on
        an annual basis. </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">1.5 The CO must provide an annual assessment, as a
        minimum, on the COR’s performance to the COR supervisor. The assessment may be performed
        concurrently with the administrative review of the COR online file detailed in 1.2.3.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">1.6 The COR must complete and upload reports to the
        SPM, as required, to enable the CO to review and approve/ reject reports in the SPM.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">1.7 When the CO terminates the COR’s duties (see
          <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/KnowledgeCenter/contracting_templates/termination_of_COR_designation.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Termination of COR Designation</u>
            </xref>), a new COR can be nominated prior to terminating the former COR. The requiring
        activity must nominate a COR replacement via the JAM to ensure continuous contract
        monitoring by a qualified individual. Copies of the designation for the successor COR will
        have the same distribution requirements as the COR letter of designation.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">1.8 When the requiring activity requests termination
        of COR designation, the CO must terminate the COR designation in writing (use of the “Smart
        Form” in the JAM is authorized). Include the signed <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/KnowledgeCenter/contracting_templates/termination_of_COR_designation.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Termination of COR Designation</u>
            </xref> in the official contract file.</p>
         <p id="p__Toc38365598" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">1.9 The CO must forward a copy
        of the fully executed <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/KnowledgeCenter/contracting_templates/termination_of_COR_designation.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Termination of COR Designation</u>
            </xref> to the COR, COR Supervisor, Contractor, and as applicable, to the contract
        administration office(r).</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
