<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      xtrc="NoAutoListNumber"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="AFFARS_MP5305_303"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">MP5305.303</ph> — Announcement of Contract Awards</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">INTERIM CHANGE:  See <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/Documents/Contracting_Memos/Policy/20-C-02.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">CPM 20-C-02</u>
            </xref>.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">The following mandatory procedure is provided for preparing 1279 Reports under DFARS <ph outputclass="DFARS" class="- topic/ph ">205.303</ph> and Reports of Intent to Award multiyear contracts under AFFARS <ph outputclass="AFFARS" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     format="dita"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     href="5317_170.dita">5317.170</xref>
            </ph>.</p>
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">INTERIM CHANGE:  See <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/Documents/Contracting_Memos/Policy/20-C-02.pdf"
                        scope="external"
                        format="pdf"
                        class="- topic/xref ">
                     <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">CPM 20-C-02</u>
                  </xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p ">(a)(i) The 1279 Report is used for Congressional notification and public announcement of contract awards and other transactions that exceed the DoD threshold.  Use the 1279 Report Format in (d), tailored where appropriate, when preparing Reports of Intent to Award IAWAFFARS <ph outputclass="AFFARS" class="- topic/ph ">
                     <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                           format="dita"
                           class="- topic/xref "
                           href="5317_170.dita">5317.170</xref>
                  </ph>.  It is important to note that the Notice of Intent to Award IAW AFFARS <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                        class="- topic/xref "
                        base="DFARS_5317_170"
                        href="5317_170.dita#AFFARS_5317_170">5317.170</xref> does not satisfy the requirement for a 1279 Report. </p>
            </li>
            <li outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">(b) After a 1279 Report has been submitted, report any changes in plans promptly to <xref href="mailto:SAF.LLP.contract.ancmt@us.af.mil"
                        scope="external"
                        format="mailto"
                        class="- topic/xref ">
                     <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">SAF/LLP</u>
                  </xref>.</p>
            </li>
            <li outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">(c) When immediate award is required and advance notification under paragraph (a) above was not accomplished, prepare the 1279 Report as usual and send it to <xref href="mailto:SAF.LLP.contract.ancmt@us.af.mil"
                        scope="external"
                        format="mailto"
                        class="- topic/xref ">
                     <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">SAF/LLP</u>
                  </xref>. Include the justification for immediate award. If the Congressional and public announcement cannot be made the same day as the award, the contracting officer must obtain the contractor’s agreement to withhold public announcement of the award until the award is posted on <xref href="https://www.defense.gov/News/Contracts/"
                        scope="external"
                        format="html"
                        class="- topic/xref ">
                     <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">https://www.defense.gov/News/Contracts/</u>
                  </xref>. Include in the report a statement that this non-disclosure agreement has been made. The contracting officer will notify the contractor of the agreed upon date of public announcement. The award may then be made without the three-day coordination. </p>
            </li>
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p ">(d) Format (do not include classified information in the report):<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li outputclass="List 2" class="- topic/li ">
                        <p outputclass="List 2" class="- topic/p ">(1) Format the SUBJECT line of the email as follows: </p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
            </li>
         </ol>
         <p outputclass="Normal (Web)" class="- topic/p ">FOUO: Release Date is DD MMM YY, Program Name, Contracting Activity, DD-LA-(AR) 1279 Report </p>
         <p outputclass="Normal (Web)" class="- topic/p ">Contract Award:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal (Web)" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Name of Contractor, address (city and state), and place of performance (if significant work is performed at a different location),</i> has been awarded a <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">face value type of contract action</i>,<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> </i>for <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">contract deliverable </i>(<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">e.g., F-22 Sustainment</i>). This contract provides for <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">description of the scope of work of the contract. </i>The location of performance is <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">location as indicated in the contract award. </i>The work is expected to be complete by <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">date. </i>If applicable: This contract involves foreign military sales to <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">country names</i>. This award is the result of a <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">competitive or sole source</i> acquisition and (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">for competitive acquisitions</i>), <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">number of</i> solicitations mailed (as applicable) and<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> number of </i>offers -received. <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Fiscal year</i> 
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">and type of funds (operations and maintenance, research and development, etc.) </i>in the amount of <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">$ figure</i> are being obligated at the time of award.<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> Contracting activity </i>is the contracting activity (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">base, city and state, contract number). </i>(Do not list fund cites here, see paragraph 6 below.) There is known/no known congressional interest pertaining to this acquisition.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal (Web)" class="- topic/p ">Contract Modification:</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal (Web)" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Name of contractor, address (city and state), and place of performance (if significant work is performed at a different location),</i> has been awarded a <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">face value, type of contract action</i> modification (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">modification number</i>) to previously awarded (<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">contract number</i>) for c<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">ontract deliverable (e.g., F-22 Sustainment)</i>. The contract modification is for <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">description of the scope of the contract (see examples). </i>The location of performance is<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> location as indicated in contract award. </i>If applicable: This modification involves foreign military sales to <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">country names</i>.<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> </i>The work is expected to be completed by<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> date. Fiscal year and type of funds </i>are being obligated at the time of award.<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> </i>Total cumulative face value of the contract is <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">$figure</i>.<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "> Contracting activity </i>is the contracting activity <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">(base, city and state). </i>(Do not list fund cites here, see paragraph 6 below.) There is known/no known congressional interest pertaining to this modification.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal (Web)" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Examples of explanatory statements for description of scope of contract are as follows:</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="Normal (Web)" class="- topic/p ">Reports of Intent to Award IAW AFFARS <ph outputclass="AFFARS" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                     format="dita"
                     class="- topic/xref "
                     href="5317_170.dita">5317.170</xref>
            </ph>:  Call your <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/Documents/aqcp_contact_info.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">SAF/AQC action officer</u>
            </xref> to confirm receipt. U<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">se the format for </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Contract Award</i>
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">, </i>
            </b>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">state the face value for the total multiyear period and, separately, the value of any options; and include the estimated cancellation ceilings for each program year of the proposed contract and the estimated savings over annual procurement methods. If award is an Energy Savings Performance Contract (ESPC) with a cancellation ceiling, also state the maximum cancellation ceiling amount [see </i>
            <xref href="http://www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode/42/8287.html"
                  scope="external"
                  format="html"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">42 U.S.C. 8287(a)(2)(D)</u>
            </xref>, as amended by <xref href="http://frwebgate.access.gpo.gov/cgi-bin/useftp.cgi?IPaddress=162.140.64.88&amp;filename=publ291.pdf&amp;directory=/disk3/wais/data/106_cong_public_laws"
                  scope="external"
                  format="html"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Public Law 106-291</u>
            </xref>]<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">. (This paragraph does not apply to 1279 Reports under </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">DFARS <ph outputclass="DFARS" class="- topic/ph ">205.303</ph>
            </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">.) </i>(Do not list fund cites here see paragraph 6 below.)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
