<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <topic id="AFFARS_mp_5301_602_2_d_topic_3"
          xml:lang="en-US"
          ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
          domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
          class="- topic/topic ">
		    <title outputclass="Subpart" class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">2.0</ph> COR Roles and Responsibilities</title>
		    <body class="- topic/body ">
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">2.1  Register for JAM and SPM access through the PIEE e-Business Suite at <xref href="https://wawf.eb.mil"
                  scope="external"
                  format="mil"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">https://wawf.eb.mil</u>
				        </xref>, and complete training to effectively perform duties in the SPM.  Training includes a review the JAM and SPM Users Guide and FAQs, and if necessary, a request for additional training from a local Department Administrator (DA). </p>
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">2.2 Provide information necessary to assess whether any actual or potential personal conflicts of interest with performing the responsibilities to be designated exist. Conflicts of interest determination will be reviewed again prior to contract award. </p>
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">2.3 Participate, as requested, in annual CPAR procedures and contract close-out.</p>
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">2.4 Remain abreast of changes to terms and conditions of the contract resulting from contract modifications.</p>
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">2.5 Perform only those duties/responsibilities delegated by the CO in the <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/KnowledgeCenter/contracting_templates/COR_designation.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">COR Designation</u>
				        </xref>
				        <ph class="- topic/ph ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">.</u>
				        </ph>
			      </p>
			      <p id="p__Toc38365599" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">2.6 CORs may be designated as the Assessing Official’s Representative (AOR) by the CO in the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) IAW the CPARS Guide.  If designated as an AOR, the COR would be responsible for providing a timely, accurate, quality, and complete narrative for a report on the contractor's performance. If the CO requires the COR to have access to the contractor performance assessment reporting system (CPARS), the synchronized pre-deployment and operational tracker (SPOT) or the enterprise contractor manpower reporting application (eCMRA), an account would be authorized and granted after COR designation. </p>
		    </body>
	  </topic>
</dita>
