<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
            id="AFFARS_mp_5325_7002_2_topic_3"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            domains="(topic concept)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)   "
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
		    <title outputclass="Heading 2" class="- topic/title ">
			      <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph ">2.</ph> DNAD Exception</title>
		    <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">
				        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">a. </b>
				        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b "> </b>
				        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Individual DNADs</b>
			      </p>
			      <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">When a contractor asserts that a domestic item identified at DFARS 225.7002-1 is not available, a DNAD is required; the <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/KnowledgeCenter/contracting_templates/determination_and_findings_02.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DNAD</u>
				        </xref> must be coordinated through the SCO and <xref href="mailto:SAF.AQ.SAF-AQC.Workflow@us.af.mil"
                  scope="external"
                  format="mailto"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">SAF/AQC</u>
				        </xref> before submission to the Secretary of the Air Force (SecAF) for approval. The SecAF may grant a DNAD if compliant items, identified at DFARS 225.7002-1, of satisfactory quality and sufficient quantity, and in the required form, cannot be procured at U.S. market prices as and when needed. This approval authority is not delegable. This exception should not be read to require that the compliant material/item must be totally unavailable (i.e., cannot be obtained at any cost). There is some cost limit that should be recognizable by a contracting officer, and that a reasonable person would agree, makes the material/item effectively “unavailable.”</p>
			      <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">
				        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">b. </b>
				        <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Class DNADs</b>
			      </p>
			      <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">Contracting officers may continue to use OUSD (AT&amp;L) approved class DNADs that cover food, clothing, fabrics, and hand or measuring tools for new contracts if the DNAD was signed by the Undersecretary of Defense (OUSD) (AT&amp;L) or by a Service Secretary. The OUSD (AT&amp;L) DNADs currently available for reciprocal use are posted on the <xref href="http://www.dcma.mil/dnads/"
                  scope="external"
                  format="html"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
					          <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DCMA website</u>
				        </xref>. If a class DNAD is used, the contracting officer must prepare a Determination and Finding (D&amp;F) approved by the SCO. This approval may not be further delegated. The contracting officer must obtain legal review to support the determination.</p>
		    </conbody>
	  </concept>
</dita>
