<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN"
        	"ditabase.dtd">
	<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
    		xtrc="NoAutoListNumber"
    		domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
    		ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
		<concept id="AFFARS_MP5301_601_91"
       			xml:lang="en-US"
       			ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
       			class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
       			domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
			<title class="- topic/title ">
				<ph class="- topic/ph "
  					props="autonumber">MP5301.601-91</ph> — Air Force Contracting Self-Inspection Program</title>
			<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">1.  Objective.  </b>The Air Force Self-Inspection program assesses compliance with federal laws, regulatory policies, DoD and AF directives, and instructions across the enterprise.  It is also used to verify adequacy of contract preparation.</p>
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">2.  </b>
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Self-</b>
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Inspection</b>
					<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b "> Program.</b>  SCOs will manage a self-inspection program, which includes both the assessment of individual contract files and the assessment of contracting management programs contained in the Contracting Self-Assessment Communicator (SAC) as required by <xref href="http://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_ig/publication/afi90-201/afi90-201.pdf"
    						scope="external"
    						format="pdf"
    						class="- topic/xref ">
						<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">AFI 90-201</u>
					</xref>, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">The Air Force Inspection System</i>.   As a minimum, contracting offices must perform self-inspections of individual contract files on an annual basis.  </p>
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">For self-inspection of individual contract files reviewed after award, SCOs may use the <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/templates/self_inspection_checklist.xlsx"
    						scope="external"
    						format="xlsx"
    						class="- topic/xref ">
						<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Air Force Contracting Self-Inspection Checklist</u>
					</xref>; a comparable organizational checklist for post award reviews; or any combination thereof.   </p>
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">SCOs will ensure corrective actions are implemented as a result of any self-inspection.  Contracting offices must have a documented program for self-inspection, to include a process for closing resolved findings in a timely manner, ensuring an effective level of review necessary to close a finding, and integrating findings and resolutions into unit training. </p>
			</conbody>
		</concept>
	</dita>