<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <topic id="AFFARS_MP5315_407_90"
          ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
          domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
          class="- topic/topic ">
      <title outputclass="Heading 1" class="- topic/title ">
         <ph props="autonumber" class="- topic/ph "> MP5315.407-90 </ph> Contract Audit Follow-up (CAFU)</title>
      <body class="- topic/body ">
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">2019 Edition</b>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Revised: </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">26 </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Jul 21</i>
         </p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">1. This Mandatory Procedure implements the following publications:</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">a. <xref href="https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/circulars_a050/"
                  scope="external"
                  format="html"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular No. A-50</u>
            </xref>, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Audit </i>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Follow-up;</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">b. <xref href="https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/765003p.pdf?ver=2019-01-31-121535-483"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf?ver=2019-01-31-121535-483"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 7650.03</u>
            </xref>, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Follow-up on Government Accountability Office (GAO),
            Inspector General of the Department of Defense (IG DoD), and Internal Audit Reports; </i>and </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p "> c. <xref href="https://www.esd.whs.mil/Portals/54/Documents/DD/issuances/dodi/764002p.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 7640.02</u>
            </xref>, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Policy for Follow-up on Contract Audit Reports.</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i "/>d. Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 7650.02, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Engaging with the Government Accountability Office (GAO) on GAO
               Audits.</i>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">The publications above establish policy and responsibilities, reporting
            requirements, and follow-up procedures for contract audit reports issued by the Government
            Accountability Office (GAO), Inspector General of the Department of Defense (IG DoD), Defense
            Contract Audit Agency (DCAA), and the other internal audit agencies (such as the Air Force
            Audit Agency (AFAA)).</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">2. SAF/AQCP manages the Air Force CAFU program.</p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">3. CAFU requirements for DCAA audit reports:</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">a. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">SCO </b>
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">RESPONSIBILITIES</b>: SCOs: </p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p " xtrf="CheckMapping">(i) Designate a CAFU focal point to manage the
            organization’s CAFU program in accordance with these procedures. The CAFU Focal Point:</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) Monitors and ensures proper and timely resolution
            and disposition of contract audit reports within the focal point’s organization.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) Maintains current records on all reportable
            audits, from receipt through disposition. For open reports, this includes written milestone
            plans comprised, as a minimum, of target resolution and disposition dates.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) Ensures that acquisition personnel within their
            organization are properly trained in the use of contract audit reports and the requirements of
            the CAFU program.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) Ensures that the organization’s semi-annual CAFU
            status report is prepared in accordance with these procedures using the web-based CAFU tool
            and User’s manual located on the <xref href="http://www.dcma.mil/"
                  scope="external"
                  format="html"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA)</u>
            </xref> website. When the security classification of a contract or an audit precludes the use
            of the DCMA website, SCOs must seek approval from SAF/AQCP to use alternate means of
            reporting.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) Directs periodic evaluations of the organization’s
            CAFU program to determine whether they are adequate and result in timely, appropriate
            resolution and disposition of audit reports.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">b. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">CONTRACTING OFFICER
            (CO) RESPONSIBILITIES</b>: The CO is responsible for reaching agreement with the contractor
            and has wide latitude and discretion in that regard. Accordingly, the procedure contained
            herein is structured in consonance with the independent, decision-making role of the CO and
            the financial advisory role of the contract auditor. COs should give full consideration to
            contract audit advice and must pursue timely and proper resolution and disposition of contract
            audit reports. Resolution of contract audit reports, other than pre-award reports, is required
            by OMB Circular A-50 to be accomplished within six months of report issuance. Disposition
            should take place as soon as possible after resolution. Per <xref href="http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/764002p.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DoDI 7640.02</u>
            </xref>, Enclosure 3, Section 3.a, reportable audits should normally be disposed of within 12
            months after issuance. The CO must document the disposition of all reported findings and
            recommendations in a signed and dated memorandum in accordance with <xref href="http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/764002p.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DoDI 7640.02</u>
            </xref>, Enclosure 3, Section 3.b.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">c. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b "/>
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">TRACKING OF AUDIT REPORTS</b>: Contracting activities must track
            all contract audit reports. Tracking of non-reportable audits may be accomplished using
            records maintained in the contract file or in the CAFU on-line system. The designated focal
            point at each Air Force contracting activity maintains contract audit follow-up information on
            a current basis. The audit tracking information will normally be managed centrally at
            MAJCOM/DRU headquarters (except for HQ AFMC and SMC, where this tracking will occur at the
            field activity). For auditor-determined final, indirect cost rate reports, a report is
            considered received for follow-up tracking purposes when it is forwarded by the auditor to the
            cognizant Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) for resolution and disposition.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">d. <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b "/>
            <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">REPORTING OF AUDIT REPORTS</b>: Reportable audits are identified
            in the Glossary of <xref href="http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/764002p.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  format="pdf"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">DoDI 7640.02</u>
            </xref>. The information to be reported on each audit is identified in Enclosure 4 of the same
            regulation. MAJCOM/DRU/SMC semi-annual status reports will be automatically transmitted using
            the on-line CAFU system. The reports must cover the semi-annual periods ending 31 Mar and 30
            Sep and must be completed in the on-line CAFU system no later than the end of the reporting
            period. If there are no audits, a negative report must be prepared and submitted to SAF/AQCP.
            All activities must make every possible effort to ensure the completeness and accuracy of
            their semi-annual reporting submission. Special attention should be focused on ensuring the
            most accurate data is submitted on any audit listed as unresolved and over 6 months old. </p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">4. CAFU for GAO, IG DoD, and Internal Audit Reports<b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">:</b> These procedures apply to audit reports which disclose
            contract pricing issues and are issued directly to the buying activity. COs shall provide:</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">a. An initial response to the GAO/IG DoD/Internal
            Audit Agency within 60 days of receipt of the audit report; and</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">b. A copy of the initial response and the disposition
            documents to the following:</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p " xtrf="CheckMapping">(i) SAF/FMPF, 1130 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC
            20330-1130. </p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p " xtrf="CheckMapping">(ii) SAF/AQCP, 1060 Air Force Pentagon, 4C149,
            Washington, DC 20330-1060.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p " xtrf="CheckMapping">(iii) Office of the Inspector General, Department of
            Defense, Attn: DAIG, GAO Report Analysis, 4800 Mark Center Drive, Alexandria, VA
            22350-1500.</p>
         <p outputclass="Normal" class="- topic/p ">See <xref href="AFICC_PGI_5315_407_90.dita" class="- topic/xref ">AFICC PGI 5315.407-90</xref> .</p>
      </body>
   </topic>
</dita>
