<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="DAFFARS_MP_5315_3_2_2" xml:lang="en-US" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
      <title outputclass="Heading 3">
         <ph props="autonumber">2.2</ph> Develop a Source Selection Plan (SSP)</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="Normal">The PCO and the SSEB chair, with assistance from SSEB members, as necessary, prepare the SSP. A <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/KnowledgeCenter/contracting_templates/ss_plan.docx" scope="external" format="docx">
               <u>Source Selection Plan</u>
            </xref>
            <ph>
               <u> template is available for use, if desired.</u>
            </ph>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">2.2.5 Evaluation Factors and Subfactors. When using VATEP, address the decision to use, or not use, an affordability cap, along with supporting rationale for the decision. If an affordability cap will be used, describe how it will be evaluated and whether offerors whose proposals exceed the affordability cap will be eligible for award.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2">2.2.6 Documentation. Briefing charts shall not serve as the SSEB Initial Report, Competitive Range Decision Document, updated SSEB Initial Report, or SSEB Final Report, but may be used to present summaries of these reports to the SSA. If briefing charts are used to comply with any other source selection documentation requirements set forth in the DoD Source Selection Procedures, a written script for each briefing must be maintained in the official (permanent) contract file. Briefings should summarize the evaluation and not duplicate the content of written reports. </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">2.2.9 Securing Source Selection Materials. Section 9.0 of the SSP (“Securing Source Selection Materials”) must include a plan and procedures which address the filing, protection, handling, maintenance, release, retention and disposition of all documents that constitute the complete source selection record. For those source selections utilizing an electronic system for source selection documentation, the SSP must include the process for handling documentation, such as the process for documenting the basis for any changes made to an evaluator’s finalized document. The plan must address training for all SST members to familiarize them with the plan/procedures and mechanism(s) to ensure compliance with the plan/procedures. </p>
         <p outputclass="List2">2.2.10 The PCO shall maintain the SSP after approval. Subsequent proposed changes to the source selection organization, to include the SSEB and the SSAC (when used), shall be documented in an addendum to the SSP and approved by the SSA unless the SSA delegates this approval responsibility to the SSEB Chairperson within the SSP. </p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
