<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="DAFFARS_MP_5315_3_6_4"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            outputclass="task">
      <title class="- topic/title " outputclass="Heading 3">
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">6.4</ph> Acquisition/Source Selection Team      Training</title>
      <conbody>
         <p outputclass="List1">6.4.1 Conducting Source Selection Training
            Sessions.</p>
         <p>Source selection training must be presented to the entire SST,
            including the SSA, SSAC Chair and members, PM (where one is
            assigned), RO,and all advisors. Independent review of source
            selection training materials by SST members and/or attendance at
            “Train-the-Trainer” training is not sufficient to satisfy this
            training requirement.</p>
         <ul>
            <li>
               <p>Specialized executive level training modules are available for
                  the <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/KnowledgeCenter/source_selection_training/SSA_SS_Training_Charts.pptx"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external">SSA</xref> and <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/KnowledgeCenter/source_selection_training/SSAC_SS_Training_Charts.pptx"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external">SSAC</xref>. </p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/KnowledgeCenter/source_selection_training/Forms/AllItems.aspx"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external">
                     <b>Phase I</b>
                  </xref> (Acquisition
                  Planning)training should be presented at the earliest stage of
                  an acquisition and covers the acquisition process up to
                  release of the RFP. </p>
            </li>
            <li>
               <p>
                  <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/KnowledgeCenter/source_selection_training/Forms/AllItems.aspx"
                        format="html"
                        scope="external">
                     <b>Phase II</b>
                  </xref>(Source Selection
                  Execution)training is presented prior to or immediately after
                  receipt of proposals.</p>
            </li>
         </ul>
         <p outputclass="List1">6.4.2 Training Content and Process.</p>
         <p>The SAF/AQCP Knowledge Management Team develops and maintains source
            selection training modules to assist Source Selection Trainers.
            Trainers are encouraged to tailor the modules, as needed, to meet
            the unique elements of the instant acquisition.</p>
         <p>The <b>Ethics, Procurement Integrity, and Conflicts of Interest</b>
            topic should be presented by the local legal advisor. Links to
            Ethics training material are included in both Phase I and Phase II
            source selection training materials. The use of locally-developed
            Ethics training by local legal advisors is encouraged. The length of
            the source selection training and the level of detail presented in
            either Phase I (Acquisition Planning) or Phase II (Source Selection
            Execution) depends on the complexity of the specific acquisition and
            the experience level of the SST.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1">6.4.3 Advance Preparation.</p>
         <p>Effectiveness of the source selection training experience can be
            enhanced with advance preparation. The Defense Acquisition
            University (DAU) offers <xref href="https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/tabnavcl.aspx"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external">continuous learning modules</xref> on source
            selection and related topics. Some suggested DAU courses include the
            following:</p>
         <p>
            <xref href="https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/courses.aspx?crs_id=283"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external">CLC 004</xref> - <i>Market Research</i>
         </p>
         <p>
            <xref href="https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/courses.aspx?crs_id=247"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external">CLC 028</xref> - <i>Past Performance
            Information</i>
         </p>
         <p>
            <xref href="https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/courses.aspx?crs_id=423"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external">CLC 132</xref> - <i>Organizational Conflicts of
            Interest</i>
         </p>
         <p>
            <xref href="https://icatalog.dau.edu/onlinecatalog/courses.aspx?crs_id=1689"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external">CLM 049</xref> - <i>Procurement Fraud
            Indicators</i>
         </p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
