<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      xtrc="NoAutoListNumber"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
   <concept id="AFFARS_SMC_PGI_5306_301_90"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
      <title class="- topic/title ">
         <ph outputclass="topicnum" class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">SMC PGI 5306.301-90
         </ph> Policy </title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <ol class="- topic/ol ">
            <li class="- topic/li ">
               <p class="- topic/p ">(a) Regulatory requirements to justify the use of other than full and open competition are outlined in several parts of the FAR as follows:<ol class="- topic/ol ">
                     <li outputclass="List 2" class="- topic/li ">
                        <p outputclass="List 2" class="- topic/p ">(1) 6.302 identifies the statutory authorities for contracting without full and open competition for all actions not covered by Parts 8, 13 and 16. Refer to <xref outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly"
                                 class="- topic/xref "
                                 base="DFARS_5306_303_2"
                                 href="5306_303-2.dita#AFFARS_5306_303_2">5306.303-2</xref> for the <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/templates/justification_and_approval_document.pdf"
                                 scope="external"
                                 format="pdf"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">
                              <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Justification and Approval Documentation template</u>
                           </xref>.  Prepare the J&amp;A in accordance with the <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/Pages/5306.aspx"
                                 scope="external"
                                 format="aspx"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">
                              <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Preparation Guide for Other Than Full and Open Competition Justification and Approval</u>
                           </xref> at the back of the template. (NOTE: the determination and findings (D&amp;F) required under FAR <ph outputclass="FAR" class="- topic/ph ">6.202</ph>, Full and Open Competition After Exclusion of Sources, is filed under Tab 8.) (See ​​​​<xref href="https://insidesmc.losangeles.af.mil/sites/pk/Style%20Library/PON/modules/02-JandAs/default.aspx"
                                 scope="external"
                                 format="aspx"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">
                              <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Supporting Your Justification and Approval Point of Need Training</u>)<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">​</u>
                           </xref>
                        </p>
                     </li>
                     <li outputclass="List 2" class="- topic/li ">
                        <p outputclass="List 2" class="- topic/p ">(2) 8.405-6 addresses limited sources justifications (LSJ) for GSA acquisitions. Refer to 5308.405-6(d) for the <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/templates/limited_sources_J_and_A.pdf"
                                 scope="external"
                                 format="pdf"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">
                              <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Limited Sources Justification and Approval Documentation template</u>
                           </xref>.  Prepare the LSJ in accordance with the instructions in the template. </p>
                     </li>
                     <li outputclass="List 2" class="- topic/li ">
                        <p outputclass="List 2" class="- topic/p ">(3) 13.501 addresses sole source acquisitions for small dollar thresholds.</p>
                     </li>
                     <li outputclass="List 2" class="- topic/li ">
                        <p outputclass="List 2" class="- topic/p ">(4) 16.505(b)(2) addresses exceptions to fair opportunity for orders (EFO) under multiple award contracts.  Refer to 5316.505(b)(2) for the <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/templates/fair_opportunity_exception_justification.pdf"
                                 scope="external"
                                 format="pdf"
                                 class="- topic/xref ">
                              <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Justification for an Exception to Fair Opportunity template</u>
                           </xref>.  Prepare the EFO in accordance with the instructions in the template.</p>
                     </li>
                  </ol>
               </p>
            </li>
            <li outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">(b) Submit the J&amp;A, LSJ, or EFO package to SMC/PKC as early as possible but prior to acquisition strategy approval. Contracting officers should consider reviewing the template instructions and going over an outline of the sole or limited source rationale with the SMC/PKC Reviewer prior to drafting the document. </p>
            </li>
            <li outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">(c) Each FAR part has specific posting instructions for general publication of the justification document. Ensure you understand the posting requirements of your justification document. </p>
            </li>
            <li outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">(d) When reviewing a J&amp;A, LSJ, or EFO, contracting officers should consider whether an amendment to the original Acquisition Plan is also required.  If the effort is out of scope of the contract, it may also be outside the approved acquisition authority. </p>
            </li>
            <li id="li__SMC_PGI_5306.302-2"
                outputclass="List 1"
                class="- topic/li ">
               <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">(e) For tracking and reporting purposes obtain a Local Identification Number from SMC/PKC for each J&amp;A prior to coordination.</p>
            </li>
         </ol>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
