<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
      xtrc="NoAutoListNumber"
      domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
      ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
		<concept id="AFFARS_SMC_PGI_5345_103_90"
            xml:lang="en-US"
            ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
            class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
            domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
			   <title class="- topic/title ">
				     <ph outputclass="topicnum" class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">SMC PGI 5345.103-90</ph> General</title>
			   <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
				     <ol class="- topic/ol ">
					       <li outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/li ">
						         <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">(a)  Base support requirements are not captured in the government property attachments to the contract. When providing Base Support, personnel are encouraged to include in Tab 34 of the contract file all documentation or agreements outlining the support to be provided at specific locations, including evidence that furnishing Base Support is in the best interest of the Government.  Be specific and clear as to kind, type, quality, level, frequency and quantity of material, equipment, transportation, facilities, and services to be required by the contract.  Try to identify the program(s) being supported.  Try to include detailed language describing the Base Support in the PWS/SOW.  A <xref href="https://cs2.eis.af.mil/sites/10059/afcc/knowledge_center/affars_pgi_related_documents/sample_of_suggested_base_support_language.docx"
                        scope="external"
                        format="docx"
                        class="- topic/xref ">
								             <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">sample of suggested Base Support language</u>
							           </xref> is provided.   </p>
					       </li>
					       <li outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/li ">
						         <p outputclass="List 1" class="- topic/p ">(b) Facilities Use and Rental availability is negotiated between the contractor and the government prior to contract award.  Authorization and approval documentation from the cognizant functional organization is provided to the contracting officer and filed in Tab 34 of the contract file. </p>
					       </li>
				     </ol>
			   </conbody>
		</concept>
	</dita>
