<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN"
        	"ditabase.dtd">
	<dita xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
    		xtrc="NoAutoListNumber"
    		domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   "
    		ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
		<concept id="AFFARS_SMC_PGI_5304_270_2"
       			xml:lang="en-US"
       			ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3"
       			class="- topic/topic concept/concept "
       			domains="(topic task)                            (topic concept)                            (topic concept glossentry)                            (topic concept glossgroup)                            (topic reference)                            (topic troubleshooting++task) (topic task)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            a(props deliveryTarget)                            (topic equation-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic hi-d)                            (topic indexing-d)                            (topic markup-d)                            (topic mathml-d)                            (topic pr-d)                            (topic relmgmt-d)                            (topic sw-d)                            (topic svg-d)                            (topic ui-d)                            (topic ut-d)                            (topic markup-d xml-d)                            (topic task strictTaskbody-c)   ">
			<title class="- topic/title ">
				<ph outputclass="topicnum"
  					class="- topic/ph "
  					props="autonumber">SMC PGI 5304.270-2</ph> Procedures</title>
			<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">Distribution through Electronic Data Access (EDA) is accomplished via the automated contract writing system (e.g., ConWrite, PD2). The contracting officer is responsible for distribution to any parties that do not have EDA accounts (e.g., contractor, program office). Personnel at Los Angeles AFB using ConWrite should follow the procedures below for contract award and distribution. Chief of the contracting office (COCO) at Peterson AFB, Kirtland AFB, and in Operational Contracting at Los Angeles AFB should establish comparable local procedures for contract award and distribution and disseminate those procedures to their personnel. </p>
				<ol class="- topic/ol ">
					<li outputclass="List 1"
  						class="- topic/li ">
						<p outputclass="List 1"
 							class="- topic/p ">(a) New contracting personnel or personnel changing organizations can obtain ConWrite access from the SMC/PKX ConWrite administrator. See instructions at the <xref href="https://insidesmc.losangeles.af.mil/sites/pk/div/pkf/conwrite/default.aspx"
    								scope="external"
    								format="aspx"
    								class="- topic/xref ">
								<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">ConWrite</u>
								<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u "> Corner</u>
							</xref>. </p>
					</li>
					<li outputclass="List 1"
  						class="- topic/li ">
						<p outputclass="List 1"
 							class="- topic/p ">(b) Submit contract award distribution requests using the <xref href="https://insidesmc.losangeles.af.mil/sites/pk/div/pkc/requests/Lists/pkcawardlog/AllItems.aspx"
    								scope="external"
    								format="aspx"
    								class="- topic/xref ">
								<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">Electronic Award Request</u>
							</xref> form.  Requests that fail to follow the procedures in this MP may not be awarded and may be returned for correction. If requests are returned for correction, the Award Distro team will provide comments in the electronic comment form. The contracting officer will document resolution of the comments in the form prior to resubmitting for award and distribution. If the documentation cannot be corrected on the same day, the contracting officer may be directed to re-sign the document as of the date the request is resubmitted. Disputes will be elevated to the COCO and the SMC/PKX Division Chief. </p>
					</li>
					<li outputclass="List 1"
  						class="- topic/li ">
						<p outputclass="List 1"
 							class="- topic/p ">(c) In order to meet the contract action reporting (CAR) timelines in FAR <ph outputclass="FAR"
  								class="- topic/ph ">4.604</ph>(b), award requests should be submitted on the same day the contracting officer signs the contract action. If same-day award distribution is required, notify the Award Distro team and submit the request by 1200 PT to provide sufficient time to complete the award distribution process. When extenuating circumstances require late day or after hours award distribution, the COCO should contact the Award Distro team prior to 1200 PT to coordinate support.  For same-day award, either the contract specialist or the contracting officer should be available until the electronic award distribution action is completed.</p>
					</li>
					<li id="li__SMC_PGI_5304.402"
  						outputclass="List 1"
  						class="- topic/li ">
						<p outputclass="List 1"
 							class="- topic/p ">(d) Upon completion of electronic distribution, the Award Distro team will notify the contracting officer and contract specialist via email that a copy of the contractual document has been posted to Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) and Electronic Document Access (EDA) and that the CAR has been transmitted to FPDS-NG. Contracting officers should include this email in the official contract file as evidence that the CAR has been submitted in a timely manner IAW FAR <ph outputclass="FAR"
  								class="- topic/ph ">4.604</ph>(b)(2).</p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</conbody>
		</concept>
	</dita>