<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN"
        	"ditabase.dtd">
	<dita xtrc="NoAutoListNumber"  >
		<concept id="AFFARS_SMC_PGI_5315_3d"
       			xml:lang="en-US"
       			class="- topic/topic concept/concept " >
			<title class="- topic/title ">
				<ph outputclass="topicnum"
  					class="- topic/ph "
  					props="autonumber">SMC PGI 5315.3</ph> (2.1.2.1)   Pre-solicitation Notices</title>
			<conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
				<p outputclass="Normal"
 					class="- topic/p ">A Request for Information (RFI) is generally used as part of market research to determine industry interest in an anticipated acquisition; to obtain estimated prices, delivery or other market information for planning purposes; and to ensure industry understanding of Government requirements.  PCOs should ensure the requirements at FAR <ph outputclass="FAR"
  						class="- topic/ph ">15.209</ph>(c) are followed and FAR clause 52.215-3, “Request for Information or Solicitation for Planning Purposes”, is included in the RFI.</p>
				<ol class="- topic/ol ">
					<li outputclass="List 1"
  						class="- topic/li ">
						<p outputclass="List 1"
 							class="- topic/p ">(a) Call for Concepts (or Concept Data Call) – a type of RFI in which the Government seeks industry information to understand state-of-the-art technologies and recommendations to formulate initial capability documents and/or identify Government technology gaps and shortfalls.  This type of information is usually for new and emerging technologies and will require a Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) Life Cycle Cost (LCC) estimate with high level schedule milestones for development, initial operational capability (IOC), and long term sustainment.</p>
					</li>
					<li outputclass="List 1"
  						class="- topic/li ">
						<p outputclass="List 1"
 							class="- topic/p ">(b) Sources Sought Synopsis (SSS) – a type of RFI in which the Government posts a summary description of the technical requirement and seeks industry information to understand what sources and capabilities are available.  Often a Sources Sought synopsis is followed by an announcement of an Industry Days or may include an announcement for an Industry Days.</p>
					</li>
					<li id="li__SMC_PGI_5315.3_5"
  						outputclass="List 1"
  						class="- topic/li ">
						<p outputclass="List 1"
 							class="- topic/p ">(c) Rough Order of Magnitude (ROM) – a type of RFI in which an estimate is provided by industry at the Government’s request and may be used in the early stages of technology development or in a project when the scope and technical requirements have not been fully defined.  Requesting a ROM may also be useful to the Government at critical design stages.  The main purpose of the ROM estimate is to provide decision-makers with the information necessary to make a decision on whether it makes sense to move forward with the project based on the estimated work effort anticipated, in terms of completion time and cost.   A ROM may be useful to project planners in reducing the risk of uncertainty with regard to cost outcomes for both parties when project details have yet to be identified. </p>
					</li>
				</ol>
			</conbody>
		</concept>
	</dita>