<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DAFFARS_5301_601-91" class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title "> 
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5301.601-91</ph>  Department of the Air Force Contracting Self-Inspection Program</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) The DAF Self-Inspection program assesses compliance with federal laws, regulatory policies, DoD and <ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">D</ph>AF directives, and instructions across the enterprise. It is also used to verify adequacy of contract preparation.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) SCOs will manage a self-inspection program, which includes both the assessment of individual contract files and the assessment of contracting management programs contained in the <ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT) Self-Assessment Checklists (SACs)</ph> as required by <xref format="html"
                  href="https://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_ig/publication/dafi90-302/dafi90-302.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">DAFI 90-302</xref>, The Inspection System of the Department of the Air Force<ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">, and the assessment of individual contract files</ph>. As a minimum, contracting offices must perform <ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">post-award</ph> self-inspections of individual contract files on an annual basis.<ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph "> The results of the assessment of contracting management programs contained in the SACs are reported in MICT by individual units. The results of self-inspection of individual contract files are not reported in MICT.</ph>
         </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) For self-inspection of individual<ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph "> FAR-based </ph>contract files reviewed after award<ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">, to include Special Access Programs (SAP)/classified contract files, </ph>SCOs <ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">shall</ph> use the <xref format="html"
                  href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/AQCP/KnowledgeCenter/SitePages/DAFFARS-Templates.aspx"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">Air Force Contracting Self-Inspection Checklist</xref>.<ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">For Contracting offices listed in KT FileShare (KTFS), the self-inspections shall be performed utilizing the KTFS Inspection tool beginning no later than 1 October 2024 in order to capture self-inspection results. For contracting offices not listed in KTFS, the self-inspection summary data shall be submitted into the AFMC/PKQ Automated Self-Inspection Reporting Tool (ASIRT). For SAP/classified contracts reviewed, releasable results shall be reported to SAF/AQCS via secure means for briefing to SAF/AQC</ph>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) SCOs will ensure corrective actions are implemented as a result of any self-inspection<ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph "> findings</ph>. Contracting offices must have a documented program for self-inspection, to include a process for closing resolved findings in a timely manner, ensuring an effective level of review necessary to close a finding, and integrating findings and resolutions into unit training.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) SCOs must <ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">review 8% (5% for FY24 only) of their contract actions each fiscal year. </ph>
            <ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">Business/contract clearances shall not be counted towards meeting the required 8% of contracting actions reviewed. Maintaining a robust self-inspection program and sharing the data results will support a DAF-wide consolidated trend analysis report for the previous fiscal year. All reviews in KTFS, summary reporting in ASIRT, and SAP/classified reporting for the previous fiscal year must be completed by 15 February of each year.</ph>
         </p>
         <p class="- topic/p ">.</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
