<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DAFFARS_5304_402-90" class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title "> 
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5304.402-90</ph> General</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-32/subtitle-A/chapter-I/subchapter-D/part-117"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">32
CFR Part 117</xref> and <xref format="html"
                  href="https://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_aa/publication/dodm5220.22v2_afman16-1406v2/dodm5220.22v2_afman16-1406v2.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">DAFMAN
16-1406V2</xref>, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">National Industrial Security Program: Industrial
Security Procedures for Government Activities</i>, clarify
contracting officer responsibilities and provides guidance for
implementing the Department of the Air Force’s National
Industrial Security Program. <ph id="p530440490" class="- topic/ph "/>
        </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) <ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref format="html"
                     href="https://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_aa/publication/dafh16-1406/dafh16-1406.pdf"
                     scope="external"
                     class="- topic/xref ">DAFH 16-1406</xref>
            </ph>, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">National Interest Determination Handbook</i>. This instruction clarifies responsibilities and procedures for processing National Interest Determinations (NID).</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) <ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 16-7 Special Access Programs establishes policies and responsibilities for the management, administration, and oversight of Special Access Programs for which the Air Force has Cognizant Authority.</ph>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d)<ph rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/ph "> 
               <xref format="html"
                     href="https://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/af_a3/publication/afi10-701/afi10-701.pdf"
                     scope="external"
                     class="- topic/xref ">DAFI 10-701</xref>
            </ph>, <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">Operations Security</i>, establishes responsibilities for contracting officers when there are OPSEC requirements on contract.</p>
         <p rev="Revised June 12, 2024" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) In accordance with FAR part 4.4, DAF personnel will use the NISP Contract Classification System (NCCS) to process DD Form 254s, provided that the data submitted is unclassified. For contracts where the content of the DD Form 254 contains classified information and the classified information cannot be segregated into classified attachments or addendums, use of NCCS is not required until such time that an automated solution is available on the appropriate classified information system. NCCS is available electronically at https://www.dcsa.mil/is/nccs. </p>
         <p rev="Revised June 12, 2024" outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(f) Additional DD254 guidance: </p>
         <p rev="Revised June 12, 2024" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Solicitation/Award DD Form 254</b>: </p>
         <p rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/p ">A solicitation DD Form 254 is required to be drafted, coordinated, and certified in block 17 IAW DoD and Air Force industrial security policy requirements. The coordinated and certified DD Form 254 shall be attached to the solicitation that is provided to the vendor(s). Distribution of the solicitation DD Form 254 per Air Force Industrial Security Policy is not required unless the vendor requires access to classified information during the pre-award phase of the contract. Solicitation means any request to submit offers or quotations to the Government. As such the solicitation stage includes but is not limited to: Invitation for Bid (IFB), Request for Information (RFI), Request for Proposal (RFP), Request for Quotation (RFQ), Program Research and Development Announcement (PRDA), Broad Agency Announcement (BAA), Grants, Cooperative Agreement, Other Transactions (OT) and other extraordinary actions. A new, original DD Form 254 is required to be drafted, coordinated, certified, and distributed and shall be attached to the contract award. </p>
         <p rev="Revised June 12, 2024" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">IDIQ</b>: </p>
         <p rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/p ">Basic Indefinite Delivery Vehicle (IDV) and Indefinite Delivery Vehicle Quantity (IDIQ) contracts or agreements as defined in FAR 4.601 in which there is no requirement for a breakdown by classification of the various elements of the classified effort may utilize the same DD Form 254 for the entire IDV contract. In this case, a separate DD Form 254 will not be required for delivery, task orders, or equivalent pending all the security requirements are identical for each order against the IDV contract or agreement, at the discretion of the servicing Contracting Officer and will be documented in block 13. If the security requirements for the task, delivery, or purchase order for a contract or agreement result in additional security requirements from that of the basic DD Form 254, a revised basic DD Form 254 is required. The servicing Contracting Officer will determine how to document use of the basic DD Form 254 on all delivery, purchase, or task orders for all prime contracts or agreements, if applicable. If it is determined that a DD Form 254 at the IDV contract level will not cover varying needs of the classified effort in each delivery order, then a separate DD Form 254 should still be done for each delivery/task order as long as the separate DD Form 254 does not contain security requirements above that of the basic DD Form 254. </p>
         <p rev="Revised June 12, 2024" outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) <b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b ">Contract novation</b>: </p>
         <p rev="Revised June 12, 2024" class="- topic/p ">A new original DD Form 254 is required to be drafted, coordinated, certified, and distributed upon the finalization of a contract novation. The new original DD Form 254 will identify the new vendor and prime contract number. If the new vendor does not possess the requisite level of facility clearance, the vendor will be sponsored for a facility clearance IAW Air Force industrial security policy requirements. </p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
