<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DAFFARS_5315_405" class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title "> 
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5315.405</ph> Price Negotiation</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) In situations where a contractor inadequately supports the proposed price as fair and reasonable despite all attempts by the contracting officer to secure adequate justification through negotiations, these situations should be elevated and documented as described herein. When the contractor insists on a cost/price or demands a profit or fee that the contracting officer considers unreasonable, the contracting officer shall notify the authority one level above the contracting officer and using the instructions in the link immediately submit an <ph rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref format="html"
                     href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/AQCP/KnowledgeCenter/SitePages/Egregious-Pricing-Incident-Report.aspx"
                     scope="external"
                     class="- topic/xref ">Egregious Pricing Incident Report</xref>
            </ph> to <ph rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref format="html"
                     href="mailto:SAF.AQ.SAF-AQC.Workflow@us.af.mil"
                     scope="external"
                     class="- topic/xref ">SAF/AQC Workflow</xref>
            </ph>, and the <ph rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5302-definitions-words-and-terms"
                     format="html"
                     scope="external"
                     class="- topic/xref ">cognizant HCA Workflow</xref>
            </ph> (if HCA is other than DAS(C) or ADAS(C)). The contracting officer shall also inform the contractor that such action has been taken and continue to attempt to negotiate a fair and reasonable cost/price.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(1) If the Egregious Pricing situation is not resolved through
negotiations, the offeror is ineligible for award unless the
cognizant HCA determines, in writing, that it is in the best
interest of the Government to make award to that offeror, based on
consideration of the following:</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(i) The program or mission partner need for the item(s) or
service(s) in terms of the specific mission contribution;</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(ii) The challenges to reaching and efforts made to reach a fair
and reasonable cost/price; and</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" class="- topic/p ">(iii) Increased cost or harm to the Government if award is not
made.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(2) The PEO or Wing Commander (or other corresponding authority)
and SCO shall certify to the cognizant HCA that the conditions
listed in (d)(1) exist and award should be made. <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5301-federal-acquisition-regulations-system#DAFFARS_SUBPART_5301_7"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">DAFFARS
5301.7</xref> provides instructions for the submission of the
Determination and Findings (D&amp;F).</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(3) Contracting officers, with coordination from the cognizant SCO, must report price negotiation situations, where (d)(1) applies, to the <ph rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="mailto:SAF.AQ.SAF-AQC.Workflow@us.af.mil"
                     format="AQ.SAF-AQC.Workflow@us.af.mil.SAF-AQC.Workflow@us.af.mil.Workflow@us.af.mil.af.mil.mil"
                     scope="external"
                     class="- topic/xref ">SAF/AQC Workflow</xref>
            </ph> and the <ph rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5302-definitions-words-and-terms"
                     format="html"
                     scope="external"
                     class="- topic/xref ">cognizant HCA Workflow</xref>
            </ph> (if HCA is other than DAS(C) or ADAS(C)) no later than 30 days after negotiations have concluded. Update the <ph rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">
               <xref href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/AQCP/KnowledgeCenter/SitePages/Egregious-Pricing-Incident-Report.aspx"
                     format="html"
                     scope="external"
                     class="- topic/xref ">Egregious Pricing Incident Report</xref>
            </ph> completed under paragraph (d) with post-negotiation information and submit a copy of the final negotiation memorandum and D&amp;F as attachments.</p>
         <p outputclass="List2" class="- topic/p ">(4) The procedures specified in (d)(1-3) above apply to
situations where certified cost and pricing data are required and
to situations when certified cost and pricing data are not
required. If used in situations where other than certified cost or
pricing data is required and <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-15#FAR_15_403_3"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">FAR
15.403-3(a)(4)</xref> applies, contracting officers should also
complete reporting requirements required under DAFFARS <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5315-contracting-negotiation#DAFFARS_5315_403_3"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">5315.403-3(a)(6)(ii)</xref>
above.</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
