<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DAFFARS_MP_5315_3_1_2" class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title "
             outputclass="Heading 3"
             rev="Revised June xx, 2024"> 
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">1.2</ph> Applicability and Waivers</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p outputclass="List2" rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/p ">This MP must be used in conjunction with <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-15"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">FAR Part 15</xref>,as supplemented, to include the <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/dfars/part-215-contracting-negotiation"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">DFARS Part</xref>
            <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/dfars/part-215-contracting-negotiation"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">215</xref> and its companion resource entitled Procedures, Guidance and Information (PGI), DoD Source Selection Procedures, and related laws, regulation, and policy. As guidance, this MP also provides hyperlinks to non-mandatory best practices, TTPs, sample RFP and contract language, tailorable templates and training materials.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/p ">1.2.3 Waivers. Waivers for solicitations valued at $1B or more for approval by the Director, Defense Pricing and Contracting (DPC), must be forwarded through the SCO to the <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5302-definitions-words-and-terms"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">cognizant HCA Workflow</xref> for review and processing. See <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/mp5301-federal-acquisition-regulations-system#DAFFARS_MP5301_601"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">MP 5301.601(a)(i)</xref> for the waiver approval authority when the solicitation value is above $10M but less than $1B. For waivers pertaining to SSAC establishment, SCOs should consider input from the SSA. </p>
         <p outputclass="List4" rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/p ">1.2.4.1.Waiver procedures apply only to the DoD Source Selection Procedures (CAUTION: read paragraph 1.2 of the <xref href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/policy/policyvault/USA000740-22-DPC.pdf"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">DOD Source Selection Procedures)</xref> and this MP. The requirements of <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-15#FAR_Subpart_15_3"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">FAR15.3</xref>,as supplemented, cannot be waived as these requirements are subject to the FAR deviation process (see <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5301-federal-acquisition-regulations-system#DAFFARS_5301_402"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">DAFFARS 5301.402(2)</xref>, <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5301-federal-acquisition-regulations-system#DAFFARS_5301_403"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">DAFFARS 5301.403(1)(i), (ii)</xref>,and <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5301-federal-acquisition-regulations-system#DAFFARS_5301_404"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">DAFFARS 5301.404(b)(i) and (ii)</xref>.</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/p ">1.2.6 Acquisitions with an estimated dollar value less than or equal to $50M may use price as the only evaluation factor and, therefore, be exempt from the <xref href="https://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/policy/policyvault/USA000740-22-DPC.pdf"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">DoD Source Selection Procedures</xref>, dated 20August 2022, and from this MP, if all of the following conditions are met:</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/p ">(1) The requirement is non-complex and well-defined, such that consideration of non-cost/price evaluation factors (e.g., technical, past performance, etc.) would not provide any meaningful differentiation amongst proposals and would add no value to the selection of a successful offeror;</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/p ">(2) Past performance record and history will be assessed as one of the multiple standards required fora successful offeror to be determined responsible as described in <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-9#FAR_9_104"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">FAR 9.104</xref>;</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/p ">(3) Use of price as the only evaluation factor is the most advantageous approach to the government;and</p>
         <p outputclass="List3" rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/p ">(4) The acquisition strategy approving official has determined that use of price as the only evaluation factor is the most appropriate source selection methodology for the requirement and the justification for this determination is included in the approved acquisition strategy/plan.</p>
         <p outputclass="List4" rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/p ">1.2.6.1 See <xref href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/mp5301-federal-acquisition-regulations-system#DAFFARS_MP5301_601"
                  format="html"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">MP5301.601(a)(1)</xref> for acquisitions with an estimated dollar value over $50M that meet the conditions at 1.2.6 (1)-(4). </p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
