<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DAFFARS_5352_242-9000" class="- topic/topic concept/concept ">
      <title class="- topic/title "> 
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5352.242-9000</ph> Contractor Access
                        to Department of the Air Force Installations</title>
      <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody ">
         <p class="- topic/p ">As prescribed in <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5342-contract-administration-and-audit-services#DAFFARS_5342_490_1"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">DAFFARS
5342.490-1</xref>, insert a clause substantially the same as the
following clause in solicitations and contracts:</p>
         <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps" class="- topic/p "> CONTRACTOR ACCESS TO THE DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE INSTALLATIONS (JU<ph rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">N</ph> 202<ph rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">4</ph>) </p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(a) The contractor shall
                                obtain base identification and vehicle passes,
                                if required, for all contractor personnel who
                                make frequent visits to or perform work on the
                                Department of the Air Force installation(s)
                                cited in the contract. Contractor personnel are
                                required to wear or prominently display
                                installation identification badges or
                                contractor-furnished, contractor identification
                                badges while visiting or performing work on the
                                installation.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(b) The contractor shall submit a written request on company letterhead to the contracting officer listing the following: contract number, location of work site, start and stop dates, and names of employees and subcontractor employees needing access to the base. The letter will also specify the individual(s) authorized to sign for a request for base identification credentials or vehicle passes. The contracting officer will endorse the request and forward it to the issuing base pass and registration office or Security Forces for processing. When reporting to the registration office, the authorized contractor individual(s) should provide a valid driver’s license, current vehicle registration, valid vehicle insurance certificate, and [<i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">insert any additional requirements to comply with local security procedures</u> 
            </i>] to obtain a vehicle pass.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(c) During performance of the contract, the
contractor shall be responsible for obtaining required
identification for newly assigned personnel and for prompt return
of credentials and vehicle passes for any employee who no longer
requires access to the work site.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(d) When work under this contract requires
unescorted entry to controlled or restricted areas, the contractor
shall comply with <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">[<u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">insert any additional requirements to
comply with</u>
            </i>
          
            <xref format="html"
                  href="http://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/af_a4/publication/afi31-101/generic_wms.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">AFI
31-101</i>
            </xref>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">, Integrated Defense, and</u>
            </i>
            <xref format="html"
                  href="https://static.e-publishing.af.mil/production/1/saf_aa/publication/dodman5200.02_afman16-1405/dodm5200.02_afman16-1405.pdf"
                  scope="external"
                  class="- topic/xref ">
               <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">DODMAN5200.02_AFMAN
16-1405</i>
            </xref>
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">
               <u class="+ topic/ph hi-d/u ">, Air Force Personnel Security
Program</u>
            </i>
          
            <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i ">]</i> citing the
appropriate paragraphs as applicable.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(e) Upon completion or termination of the contract or expiration
of the identification passes, the prime contractor shall ensure
that all base identification passes issued to employees and
subcontractor employees are returned to the issuing office.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/p ">(f) The contractor shall provide an after-hours contact number or after-hours email in the Emergency Mass Notification System (EMNS) for each of their personnel, whose normal place of duty is on a DoD installation or within a DoD facility. The contractor shall comply with any additional requirements in DAFMAN 10-206 for emergency operational reporting. Foreign Nationals may participate and may remove themselves from the Emergency Mass Notification System at any time. To update information, personnel can access the globe icon on their system desktop screens and choose the “Access Self-Service” option.</p>
         <p outputclass="List1" class="- topic/p ">(<ph rev="Revised June xx, 2024" class="- topic/ph ">g</ph>) Failure to comply with these requirements may result in withholding of final payment.</p>
         <p id="p53522429001" outputclass="Endofclause" class="- topic/p ">(End of clause)</p>
      </conbody>
   </concept>
</dita>
