<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DAFFARS_5306_304">
      <title class="- topic/title "> 
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5306.304</ph> Approval of the Justification</title>
      <conbody>
        <p outputclass="List1">(a)</p>
        <table>
            <tgroup cols="3">
               <colspec colname="col1" colnum="1" colwidth="0.8*"/>
               <colspec colname="col2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.3*"/>
               <colspec colname="col3" colnum="3" colwidth="0.9*"/>
               <tbody>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <b>Justification Value</b>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <b>Approval Authority</b>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>
                        <b>Delegability</b>
                     </entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>
                        <u>&lt;</u> $750K</entry>
                     <entry>Chief of the Contracting Office</entry>
                     <entry>Delegable to contracting officer, consistent with warrant
level</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>&gt; $750K <u>&lt;</u> $15M</entry>
                     <entry>Procuring Activity <xref format="html"
                              href="https://usaf.dps.mil/sites/AFCC/Lists/POCs/Competition%20Commercial%20Advocates.aspx"
                              scope="external">Competition
and Commercial Advocate</xref>
                     </entry>
                     <entry>Not further delegable</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>&gt; $15M <u>&lt;</u> $100M</entry>
                     <entry>PEO (General Officer or civilian SES) / Head of Procuring
Activity*</entry>
                     <entry>Delegable to General Officer or civilian SES</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>&gt; $100M</entry>
                     <entry>SAF/AQ or SAF/SQ</entry>
                     <entry>Not further delegable</entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p>* The Commander or Director for the locations listed in
5306.501(a)(1) and (2) serves as the Head of Procuring Activity and
is the J&amp;A approval authority for programs that are not part of
a PEO portfolio. AFPEO/CM is the J&amp;A approval authority for
services that are not part of a Systems PEO portfolio.</p>

        <p outputclass="List2">(4) J&amp;As for actions exceeding $100M must be coordinated
with the PEO/Head of Procuring Activity and the <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5302-definitions-words-and-terms"
                  scope="external">cognizant
HCA</xref> prior to SAF/AQ or SAF/SQ approval (See <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/mp5301-federal-acquisition-regulations-system#DAFFARS_MP5301_601"
                  scope="external">MP5301.601(a)(i)</xref>
for staffing and coordination instructions). Changes recommended
during the staffing process for SPE approval must be adjudicated by
the contracting officer in coordination with the <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/daffars/part-5302-definitions-words-and-terms"
                  scope="external">cognizant
HCA</xref> prior to submitting the J&amp;A to the SPE for
approval.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(e) Changes After J&amp;A Approval: Regardless of
dollar value, if a proposed change is for a new work outside the
scope of the original J&amp;A, submit a new J&amp;A to the
appropriate approving official based on the value of the new work.
New work should not commence until the J&amp;A is approved unless
authorized in accordance with <xref format="html"
                  href="https://www.acquisition.gov/far/part-6#FAR_6_302_2"
                  scope="external">FAR
6.302-2</xref>, Unusual and Compelling Urgency.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(1) Before contract award, if the dollar value is
expected to exceed the authority of the original J&amp;A approving
official, submit an amended J&amp;A to the appropriate approving
official. Clearly identify the dollar increase from the approved
J&amp;A.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(2) After contract award, if the dollar value of
an in-scope change exceeds the authority of the original J&amp;A
approving official, submit an amended J&amp;A to the appropriate
approving official. Clearly identify the dollar increase from the
approved J&amp;A.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(3) A new or amended J&amp;A is not require for an
increase in the estimated dollar value of in-scope work that does
not exceed the authority of the original J&amp;A approving
official.</p>
        <p id="Toc38284761">
            <b>SUBPART
5306.5 — COMPETITION ADVOCATES</b>
            <ph id="Toc38284762"/>
        </p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
</dita>
