<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
   <concept id="DAFFARS_5352_201-9101">
      <title class="- topic/title "> 
         <ph class="- topic/ph " props="autonumber">5352.201-9101</ph> Ombudsman</title>
      <conbody>
        <p>As prescribed in <xref
                                href="5301_9103.dita#DAFFARS_5301_9103"
                                outputclass="fm:ParaNumOnly">DAFFARS
                                5301.9103</xref>, insert the following
                                clause:</p>
        <p outputclass="Ctr_SmCaps">
            OMBUDSMAN (JUL 2023)
        </p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(a) An ombudsman has been appointed to hear and
facilitate the resolution of concerns from offerors, potential
offerors, and others for this acquisition. When requested, the
ombudsman will maintain strict confidentiality as to the source of
the concern. The existence of the ombudsman does not affect the
authority of the program manager, contracting officer, or source
selection official. Further, the ombudsman does not participate in
the evaluation of proposals, the source selection process, or the
adjudication of protests or formal contract disputes. The ombudsman
may refer the interested party to another official who can resolve
the concern.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">
(b) Before consulting with an ombudsman, interested parties must
first address their concerns, issues, disagreements, and/or
recommendations to the contracting officer for resolution.
Consulting an ombudsman does not alter or postpone the timelines
for any other processes (e.g., agency level bid protests, GAO bid
protests, requests for debriefings, employee-employer actions,
contests of OMB Circular A-76 competition performance
decisions).</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">
(c) If resolution cannot be made by the contracting officer, the
interested party may contact the ombudsman, [Insert names,
addresses, telephone numbers, facsimile numbers, and e-mail
addresses of Center/MAJCOM/FLDCOM/DRU/DAFRCO ombudsman/ombudsmen].
Concerns, issues, disagreements, and recommendations that cannot be
resolved at the Center/MAJCOM/FLDCOM/DRU ombudsman level, may be
brought by the interested party for further consideration to the
Department of the Air Force ombudsman, Associate Deputy Assistant
Secretary (ADAS) (Contracting), SAF/AQC, 1060 Air Force Pentagon,
Washington DC 20330-1060, phone number (571) 256-2395, facsimile
number (571) 256-2431.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(d) The ombudsman has no authority to render a
decision that binds the agency.</p>
        <p outputclass="List1">(e) Do not contact the ombudsman to request copies
of the solicitation, verify offer due date, or clarify technical
requirements. Such inquiries shall be directed to the contracting
officer.</p>
        <p outputclass="Endofclause">
(End of clause)
        </p>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
</dita>
